Emergency Benefit recipients on temporary visas are currently not

eligible for Working for Families tax credits

2. Families with children in the welfare system can receive financial support under two
acts; main benefits’ and supplementary assistance? from the Social Security Act 2018
and WFF tax credits from the Income Tax Act 2007.

3. Main benefits primarily cover the basic living costs of the parents, with a small
amount intended to assist with the financial cost of raising children*. WFF tax credits
are intended to assist with the financial cost of raising children. Supplementary
assistance is also available to help people to meet other costs, eg housing costs
(Accommodation Supplement).

4 However, officials have identified that Emergency Benefit recipients with dependent
children and who are on a temporary visa, do not qualify for WFF tax credits. This is
because they do not meet the residency criteria for WFF. The result is a difference in
the financial support that these families can access, compared with other main
benefit recipients with children. Emergency Benefit recipients are generally able to
access other supplementary and hardship assistance from the Ministry of Social
Development (MSD).

Emergency Benefit is granted to a small group of families with

exceptional circumstances

5 In general, to receive a main benefit (including Emergency Benefit) a person must be
a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident and have resided in New Zealand for at
least two years since becoming a citizen or resident. However, people with temporary
visas can receive Emergency Benefit if they are:

5.1 a refugee or protected person, or

5.2 have made a claim for refugee or protected person status and are waiting fora
decision by the Immigration and Protection Tribunal, or

5.3 are applying for permanent residency and are ‘compelled to stay in New
Zealand’ due to some unforeseen reason.

6 MSD also has discretion to grant an Emergency Benefit in other circumstances* when
those residency criteria are not met. The WFF legislation does not contain any
comparable discretion. The Emergency Benefit is paid at the same rate as the
equivalent main benefit a person or family would be entitled to, e.g. a sole parent
would be paid Emergency Benefit at the same rate as Sole Parent Support.

7 MSD data suggests that the number of people affected is small. As at June 2019
there were 152 Emergency Benefit recipients with dependent children who were on a
temporary visa.

‘ Main benefits include but are not limited to Jobseeker Support, Sole Parent Support, Supported

Living Payment, and Emergency Benefit.
2 Supplementary assistance includes but is not limited to Accommodation Supplement and Childcare
Assistance.

3 Families with children receive $25 more per week in main benefit compared to equivalent people

without children.

‘4 These circumstances can include not being eligible for another benefit, that they are in hardship

and unable to earn a sufficient livelihood.
Working for Families Tax credits entitlement for Emergency Benefit recipients 3
IN CONFIDENCE
