Working for Families is currently not able to be paid if residency

requirements are not met

8 The issue is caused by WFF not being able to be paid if residency requirements are
not met. When WFF was legislated in 2003, it effectively shifted the child component
of main benefit payments into the Family Tax Credit. This meant that Emergency
Benefit recipients could no longer access this child-related payment. Officials
understand that this was not an intentional policy decision to prevent Emergency
Benefit recipients on temporary visas from accessing the same level of financial
assistance as other beneficiaries with dependent children.

9 To qualify for WFF the person must meet the residency requirements. The residency
requirements can be met by the child or the parent.

10 The WFF residency requirements can be met by the child if:

10.1 the child is ordinarily resident in New Zealand; and,
10.2is present in New Zealand for the period of entitlement.
11. The WFF residency requirements can be met by the parent if:
11.1 the parent is ordinarily resident in New Zealand; and,
11.2 has been New Zealand for 12 months continuously at any time.

12 Those on a temporary visa are specifically excluded from the definition of New
Zealand resident for WFF. This exclusion was intended to prevent short-term visitors
from accessing WFF. It was not intended to prevent those in exceptional
circumstances, such as protected persons and spontaneous refugees who hold
temporary visas from accessing WFF.

A policy decision was made in 2019 to extend Working for Families

entitlement to Emergency Benefit recipients

13 Officials consider that if MSD grant an Emergency Benefit to a person on a temporary
visa, then that person should also be able to qualify for WFF, in the same way as
other beneficiaries. The Emergency Benefit is designed to cover the basic living costs
of the adult in the family while WFF contributes to the costs of raising children.
Emergency Benefit recipients are generally able to access other supplementary and
hardship assistance from MSD. This change would significantly improve the adequacy
of the incomes of this small group of families.

14 The policy approval for this change has already been made by the Minister for Social
Development and the Minister of Revenue (IR2019/433, REP/19/10/1073 refer). It
was originally planned to be implemented through the next available tax bill.

This issue will be magnified if a domestic epidemic management

notice is issued so urgent legislative change is recommended

15 The Prime Minister has signalled her intention to issue a domestic epidemic
management notice. If this notice is issued and the Minister for Social Development
agrees to change the eligibility criteria for Emergency Benefit, MSD will be able to
grant people cme mummers to those who would not normally be eligible for
Emeraency Benefit. 59(2)(a)

16 To ensure this group is able to receive Working for Families, officials now consider it
pertinent to bring the amendment forward into the urgent COVID-19 bill given
current circumstances.

17 The COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Bill is due
to be passed under urgency on 25 March 2020. The amendment required to extend

Working for Families Tax credits entitlement for Emergency Benefit recipients 4
IN CONFIDENCE
