IN CONFIDENCE

Noting Paper

To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From Brook Barrington, CE DPMC Date 11/03/2020

Purpose

1. This supporting document sets out the all of government system and structure that was

activated on Friday 6" March to respond to the COVID-19 event.

Background

2. To meet the scale and complexity of the COVID-19 event, | have activated the National Crisis
Management Centre (NCMC) system and structure to strengthen and deepen our cross
government coordination (refer attached diagram).

3. The NCMC system is well placed to optimise:

a. Information gathering, management and sharing across the system from local to national

b. Coordination and direct response operations, planning and support

c. Liaison between the operational response and the national strategic response

d. Strategic level oversight and decision-making

e. Issuing of public information and conduct media liaison

f. Support to the Prime Minister, Ministers and Cabinet, and

g. Coordination and management of national resources and international assistance (if
required)

4. The NCMC will operate in accordance with a framework that has been designed and tested
to respond to major crises in New Zealand: the Coordinated Incident Management System
(CIMS). Trained officials from across government are being called in to fill roles in the NCMC.

5. [have appointed John Ombler as All of Government Controller. He will act as the pivot point
between the national security system and the operational response. He will be supported by
the Director General of Health and the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency with their
relevant statutory powers, and by an All of Government Coordinator for Strategy and Policy.
The Ministry of Health will continue to lead the public health response to COVID-19.

6. | expect to have the NCMC operating with key roles filled from March 10. We are close to
confirming a location that will stand us in good stead for the six to nine months we estimate
we will need.

7. The local level will connect with the national coordination structure through the Civil Defence
Emergency Management work stream (for councils), the Health work stream (for DHBs), the
Education work stream (for schools), and the Infrastructure work stream (for key
infrastructure).

Page 1 of 1
IN CONFIDENCE
