BUDGET SENSITIVE

The public awareness campaign will be a collaborative effort between government, non-

government agencies and the private sector

21. The campaign will be led by the Department of Internal Affairs in collaboration with a
group of non-government organisations, and private sector organisations working
together to prevent online harm.? This group will bring a wide range of expertise that
will help ensure the campaign is effective. The group will also work with the private
sector to promote tools like parental filters.

22. The campaign will complement and promote the online safety steps the Ministry of
Education has taken as it rolls out learning from home, with the provision of over 1700
laptops and 950 Chromebooks. These steps include:

e supporting the Network for Learning crown company to provide parents and
caregivers with a free filtering service for their child’s device. This filter will block
websites containing known cyber threats like phishing scams, malicious content
and virus, while also filtering out the content deemed the worst of the web.

e encouraging parents and whanau to supervise their children’s online activities and
using available information for parents and children about staying safe online.

23. The Five Countries Ministerial Group? is also working with major technology companies
to develop a joint COVID-19 online safety campaign focused on addressing child sexual
exploitation and abuse. While this is a separate campaign with a narrower focus, the
Department of Internal Affairs will ensure the campaigns align with one another.

The public awareness campaign needs to be rolled out quickly to help parents,

children and young people

24. Children and young people have increased their online use since the country went into
lockdown on 25 March and as Term 2 started on 15 April 2020. This is likely to
continue during the transition from learning at home to going back to school.
Therefore, the campaign needs to be rolled out quickly to help prevent children and
young people being exposed to online harm and provide support where they have
already experienced online harm.

25. Should this proposal be approved, the campaign would be rolled out as per the
schedule set out in Table 1 below.

Table 1 - Timetable for campaign

Activity | A Tw Seer

Commission external consultant for campaign | Mid-April 2020

Launch new webpage on www.govt.nz Mid-April 2020

Roll out public messaging across multiple May 2020

channels

2 The group preventing online harm is a collaborative cross agency group with a core group of the following

agencies: the Department of Internal Affairs, Office of Film and Literature Classification, Computer Emergency
Response Team, and the New Zealand Police.

Other agencies and organisations that work with the group as required include the Office of the Privacy
Commissioner, Ministry of Education, the High Tech Crime Group, Netsafe, Vodafone, Network for Learning,
the Domain Name Commission and Facebook.

3 The Five Countries Ministerial Group is focused on reducing online harm and consists of New Zealand,

Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Page 4 of 8
