BUDGET SENSITIVE
33. The Department of Internal Affairs has reviewed options for reprioritising funding from
within Vote Internal Affairs 2019/20 baseline to fund costs associated with the
campaign. It is unable to identify reprioritisation options while maintaining current
service delivery and a committed programme of works. It is also deploying significant
resources into the COVID-19 response to support local government, communities and
the Government Chief Digital Officer’s response. This effort may require the

Department of Internal Affairs to reprioritise resources away from other programmes.

Population implications

34. Different population groups have varying experiences of online harms, including
unwanted digital communications that may cause harm. We have identified groups at
risk that would benefit from this proposal.

Population group | How the proposal may affect this group

Children The proposal’s purpose is preventing online harm to children and
young people as this group faces specific risks from accessing or
viewing inappropriate content such as online pornography, and
malicious activity that targets children such as online grooming.

Women Girls would benefit from prevention of online harm as research
from Netsafe and the Ministry for Women shows that girls are
more likely to receive unwanted digital communications and be
adversely impacted than boys. Girls experience many of the same
forms of harassment and abuse online as they do elsewhere.

Maori and Pacific people | Maori and Pacific people would benefit from prevention of online
harm as research from Netsafe and the Ministry for Women shows
that Maori and Pacific teens are more likely to report receiving
unwanted digital communications.

Disabled children Disabled children would benefit from prevention of online harm.
Disabled children, such as children with learning impairments, may
be an attractive target group that can be more easily manipulated
than non-disabled children. Disabled children are also subject to
higher levels of online bullying and harassment, subjecting them
to them to higher levels of harm in online environments.

35. No inconsistencies with the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 and the Human Rights

Act 1993 have been identified.

Climate implications

36. The Ministry for the Environment has been consulted and confirms that the Climate
Impact Policy Assessment requirements do not apply to this proposal as the threshold
for significance is not met.

Legislative implications

37. There are no legislative implications for this paper.

Impact analysis

38. Regulatory Impact Analysis is not required for these proposals.

Publicity

39. | will announce the public awareness campaign prior to its launch.

Page 6 of 8
