The commercial rock lobster industry has requested for uncaught ACE to be carried
forward to the next fishing year s19(2)(a))

If rock lobster was removed from
Schedule 5A, section 67A of the Act limits the proportion of ACE that can be carried
forward to 10%.
Section 67A(3)(b) of the Act prevents any ACE carry forward provisions for stocks that
have a reduction in the TACC from the previous fishing year. Fisheries New Zealand is
not consulting on enabling changes to the rules preventing carry forward for stocks with
a TACC reduction, as Fisheries New Zealand considers that this would risk placing
additional fishing pressure on stocks that already require catch reductions due to
sustainability concerns.
While financial impacts from low demand for live lobster exports to China could be offset
through increased frozen or domestic sales, or finding other export markets, industry
considers the economic viability of domestic alternatives to be low, given the large
volume of uncaught ACE. Industry also considers that export opportunities are limited by
the short timeframe to the end of the fishing year and an international glut of live lobster
due to other lobster-producing countries being similarly exposed to Chinese trade
pressures.
To maximise the value of uncaught ACE, and for the greatest benefits of financial relief
to be realised, any change to rock lobster ACE carry forward provisions will need to be
enabled by the end of the current fishing year on 31 March 2020.
Existing measures to provide relief for fishers
To provide some relief to fishers that have caught rock lobster but are unable to export
them, or sell them at profit, Fisheries New Zealand is allowing the release of rock lobster
currently held in holding pots under the supervision of Fishery Officers and subject to
biosecurity and survivability criteria.
Fisheries New Zealand has also extended mental wellbeing support to fishers that may
be going through financial hardship (this is currently being provided as part of the
Hector’s and Maui Dolphin Threat Management Plan).
Fisheries New Zealand understands that some fishers are taking steps to mitigate
financial impacts themselves, including ACE trading and arbitrage arrangements
between fishers to reduce individuals’ ACE liabilities.
2.2 Who is affected and how?
The commercial rock lobster industry is the principle sector directly impacted. Industry is
made up of tangata whenua interests, commercial fishers, Licenced Fish Receivers and
other businesses. The industry representative body, the New Zealand Rock Lobster
Industry Council has requested uncaught ACE to be carried forward.
There are approximately 260 permit holders with ACE holdings across ten rock lobster
stocks. There will be variation between rock lobster fishers in terms of economic impact.
Fishers who have large volumes of ACE unfished, and are now unable to secure markets
for rock lobster, will incur the greatest financial impacts.

Impact Summary Template | 5
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
