Section 7: Monitoring, evaluation and review
Fisheries New Zealand recommends enabling an ACE carry forward provision for rock
lobster for the 2020/2021 fishing year only.
There are arrangements already in place to carry forward up to 10% of uncaught ACE into
the following fishing year for other QMS stocks. For stocks with ACE carry forward
provisions, the portion of uncaught ACE that is carried forward is allocated by FishServe to
ACE holders soon after final monthly harvest returns for the year have been submitted.
While it is not possible to determine the uncaught ACE from regular ACE holdings
following allocation, fishers are required to report all rock lobster caught, and balance this
against total ACE holdings. The volume of rock lobster landed is further verified through
landing reports and Licenced Fish Receiver (LFR) returns.
Assuming the live rock lobster export market improves as per normal next fishing year,
there are reporting measures and data collection systems already in place to monitor and
evaluate if any impacts materialise. Rock lobster sales will be monitored through export
documentation and the required reporting of revenue from exports.
It is unknown what level of impact any new arrangements will have on individual ACE
holders as each will hold differing levels of ACE and have individual arrangements with
LFRs to supply export markets.
Fisheries New Zealand considers that there will be no long-term implications as the ACE
carry forward provision will be in place for the 2020/21 fishing year only.
Outside of exceptional circumstances, Fisheries New Zealand considers that there is
unlikely to be a need to manage unexpected rock lobster catch at the end of the fishing
year and retaining the inability to carry forward ACE in subsequent fishing years would
pose the least risk to any sustainability concerns for rock lobster.
Fisheries New Zealand recommends returning rock lobster to Schedule 5A of the Act
before the end of the 2020/21 fishing year to limit this ACE carry forward provision to the
2020/21 fishing year only.
Impact Summary Template | 15
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
