Section 2: Problem definition and objectives
2.1 What is the policy problem or opportunity?
The commercial rock lobster fishing industry is currently experiencing severe and
unexpected market disruption due to the Coronavirus outbreak. Measures taken by
China with respect to restrictions on transport and people movements have led to wide
scale cancellation of live rock lobster export orders during the Chinese New Year period.
This is a period of high demand when live rock lobster prices are high.
China accounts for 98-99% of all live exports of rock lobster. As of 24 February,
Fisheries New Zealand estimates ยง)9(2)(@)
based on submissions from industry and usual export prices.

Generally, fishers have purchased rock lobster ACE in advance prior to the end of the
fishing year (31 March 2020) to fill orders for the typical increase in export market
demand around the Chinese New Year period. There has been a significant decline in
demand for live rock lobster exports to China, and limited alternative or domestic
markets for live rock lobster. In most case fishers would have purchased ACE in
advance and hold a significant ACE liability as alternative products for rock lobster (such
as frozen) command a much reduced retail value.
It is uncertain how long the low demand for Chinese exports will continue, or whether
industry will be able to find alternative markets that could take the remaining volume of
rock lobster, before the end of this fishing year.
Fisheries New Zealand is not required to take any actions, but considers that there is an
opportunity to provide financial relief to rock lobster fishers unable to sell their rock
lobster and remaining ACE by allowing it to be carried forward into the next fishing year,
when live export markets are likely to improve, without impacting on the sustainability of
rock lobster stocks.
For most quota management system (QMS) species, under section 67A of the Fisheries
Act 1996 (the Act), at the start of each fishing year individual ACE holders are provided
with either:

a. Up to 10% of their total ACE holdings at the end of the previous fishing year

before catch balancing; or

b. The amount of ACE which was not caught, whichever is the lesser.
However, section 67A does not apply if:

a. The fishstock is listed on Schedule 5A of the Act; or

b. If the specific stock has been subject to a Total Allowable Commercial Catch

(TACC) reduction from the previous year.
All rock lobster stocks are listed on Schedule 5A of the Act, and are therefore exempt
from ACE carry forward provisions. Under the Act, an Order in Council is required to
change stocks listed on Schedule 5A.
Impact Summary Template | 4
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
