6. There is a degree of urgency in making further decisions on how to support the industry as
the end of the fishing year is rapidly approaching (31 March 2020) and rock lobster fishers
require certainty about whether to return rock lobster to the sea from holding pots (subject
to meeting biosecurity and survivability criteria), or sell them to lower value markets. There
are still a limited number of fishers holding fish at sea in significant volumes and they are
choosing not to make decisions on returning these fish until a decision is made on
potential ACE carry forward.

7. Fisheries New Zealand publically consulted on three options concerning the carry forward
of rock lobster ACE:

7.1. Option A: Retaining the status quo — making no changes to the Fisheries Act
1996, and not enabling rock lobster ACE carry forward;

7.2. Option B: Enabling carry forward of up to 10% of the total ACE held by individual
fishers, if uncaught (by removing rock lobster from Schedule 5A of the Act via
Order in Council); and

7.3. Option C: In addition to Option B, enabling the one-off carry forward of all
uncaught rock lobster ACE, beyond 10% (which would require a legislative
amendment to the Act).

8. For most New Zealand species managed within the Quota Management System, there is
an allowance enabled under the Act for up to 10% of total ACE held by individual fishers
and uncaught at the end of a fishing year, to be carried forward into the next fishing year.
However, this currently excludes rock lobster*.

9. Public consultation closed on 24 February. In total 369 submissions and responses were
received from Maori and stakeholder groups (commercial, recreational, environmental,
independent experts, and the general public/unspecified).

10. Non-commercial interests favored Option A primarily due to sustainability concerns. Many
MAori groups* and some commercial fishing interests favored Option B on the basis that it
provides rock lobster fishers with the same catch flexibility and equity as most other
fisheries, and that it would not affect sustainability. This was generally supported on the
condition that it was a one-off carry forward for the upcoming fishing year only. Most
commercial interests favored Option C to avoid significant financial losses. The scale of
financial losses are related to the individual business decisions and circumstances.

11. Fisheries New Zealand indicated a preference for option B during consultation, as it would:
provide rock lobster fishers with the same catch flexibility as most other fisheries (as
provided for under the Act); is unlikely to pose additional sustainability risks; and provide
flexibility to address future market disruptions.

? In accordance with section 67A of the Fisheries Act 1996, the carry forward amount is the lesser of the total

uncaught ACE or 10% of a fisher’s total ACE holding at the end of a fishing year.

3 At the time Schedule 5A was developed it was considered there would be no need to manage unexpected rock

lobster catch at the end of the fishing year, due to the precise nature of rock lobster harvesting.

4g 9(2)(b)(ii)

Page 2 of 10
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:07
