Implications of removing rock lobster from Schedule 5A

43. The amendment:

43.1. will provide clarity to fishers prior to the start of the new fishing year;

43.2. — will provide flexibility to defer some catch until market demand improves;

43.3. is consistent with the same catch management flexibility provided to most other
fisheries;

43.4. will not impact the sustainability of the rock lobster stocks or the health of the
aquatic environment;

43.5. will see a moderate volume of catch be deferred and carried forward to the
following fishing year, which would not significantly increase fishing effort in the
next fishing year; and

43.6. will provide some financial relief for the industry by enabling the value of up to 10%
of total ACE holdings, if uncaught, to be preserved.

44. Asat24 February, Fisheries New Zealand estimated that around 388 tonnes of rock
lobster remains uncaught (14% of total ACE). Based on the current distribution of ACE,
Fisheries New Zealand estimates that of the 14% of total ACE uncaught, a carry forward
arrangement of up to 10% would mean that 4.4% (120 tonnes) of ACE would be carried
forward into the next fishing year.

45. Some ACE holders will be impacted more severely than others, due to their holdings and
nature of fishing operations.

Existing measures to provide relief for fishers

46. As mentioned earlier, government has agreed to allow the industry to release live rock
lobster currently held at sea and on land, provided specific biosecurity and survivability
criteria are able to be met.

47. Mental wellbeing support has been made available to fishers, primarily through an
independent fishing industry health and safety provider.

48. The New Zealand Trade and Enterprise infosite and the Ministry for Primary Industries’
(MPI) website includes information to help New Zealand exporters plan, prepare and
mitigate impacts of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak.

49. Fisheries New Zealand understands that some fishers are taking steps to mitigate financial
impacts themselves, including ACE trading between fishers to reduce individuals’ ACE
liabilities. Further ACE trading could be expected following this decision.

50. Financial impacts from low demand for live lobster exports to China could also be offset
through increased frozen or domestic sales, or finding other export markets. 5'9(2)(6)(ii)

Officials are aware that there are some Licensed Fish Receivers and
processors who are tailing and freezing rock lobster as well as selling rock lobster at lower
than normal prices on the domestic market.

Page 7 of 10
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:07
