Non-commercial fishers may feel that increasing the amount of commercial catch in the
next fishing year could impact their ability to catch rock lobster and presents a perception
risk of the Ministry supporting poor business models of industry.
The nature of interest among Treaty Partners and stakeholders is summarised in Table 1
below.
Table 1. Treaty Partners and interested stakeholders
a
Treaty Tangata The proposals have the biggest influence on iwi
Partners Whenua commercial fisheries, commercial interests in quota,
catching fish and as fish retailers. Outside commercial
interests, tangata whenua have a broad interest in any
changes that affect the long term sustainability and
productivity of fisheries as expressed through their role
as kaitiaki (guardians) / managers of their customary
fisheries and any interests they have as individual
recreational fishers.
Stakeholder | Commercial The proposals have the biggest influence on
groups fishers commercial fishers in terms of potential loss of revenue
directly and business viability. The proposals will provide
affected by greater certainty for fishers when making business
the proposal decisions in how to use their remaining uncaught rock
lobster ACE.
The general The general public are interested in these proposals as
Stakeholder | public consumers with an interest in a premium seafood
groups product, and the potential costs and benefits of these
indirectly proposals on their local communities’ and New
affected by Zealand’s economy. Ensuring a profitable fishing
the proposal sector supports New Zealand’s wellbeing and
international reputation.
Recreational | Recreational fishers have a broad interest in these
recreational species.
Groups term sustainability of the rock lobster stocks.
Tangata whenua are represented through Iwi Fisheries Forums and Maori are
represented through consultation with a range of bodies including Te Ohu Kaimoana (Te
Ohu), Mandated Iwi Organisations, Asset-Holding Companies, and individuals.
Te Ohu is an independent Trust, established to provide for the allocation and governance
of Fisheries Settlement assets, divested under the Treaty of Waitangi (Fisheries Claims)
Settlement Act 1992, and Fisheries Deed of Settlement. Te Ohu provides fisheries
advisory services to iwi, the Maori Fisheries Settlement entities and industry groups. Te
Ohu Kaimoana provides advice to and is guided by the 58 Mandated Iwi Organisations
that represent all Maori in New Zealand. Iwi are also represented separately through
these Mandated Iwi Organisations and Asset Holding Companies.
Impact Summary Template | 6
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
