Section 3: Options identification
Proposed options

A. Retaining the status quo — making no changes to the Act, and not enabling carry
forward;

B. Enabling fishers to carry forward up to 10% of ACE holdings for the 2020/21
fishing year only, if uncaught.

Criteria
The following criteria assess how the options meet these objectives:

a. Enabling relief to fishers unable to catch and sell uncaught rock lobster and ACE;

b. Reducing additional risks to environmental sustainability;

c. Minimising impacts on Iwi and stakeholders with an interest in rock lobster stocks
as specified under 67B(3) of the Act as ‘The Minister must consult with such
persons or organisations as the Minister considers are representative of those
classes of persons having an interest in the stocks subject to the order’; and

d. Minimising additional costs to the Crown.

Fisheries New Zealand notes that there are some non-regulatory options possible under

the status quo (Option A), but considers these don’t go far enough to achieve the

objective to provide financial relief for rock lobster fishers. Fisheries New Zealand

considers that it is reasonable to provide some support to fishers that are incurring

financial hardship.

Fisheries New Zealand’s preferred approach is Option B, for the 2020/21 fishing year

only, as this option best meets the assessment criteria. The proposed change would allow

fishers to defer their catch and selling of live rock lobster for export to the next fishing year

when markets may have improved. This would also help maintain the value of rock lobster

ACE and revenue received from the live export market.

Option B, in combination with wider commitments to enable industry to return held rock

lobster to sea would provide the appropriate support to industry and is most readily

achieved within the 1 April 2020 timeframe, in order to enable fishers to make catch

decisions about uncaught ACE for this fishing year.

Fisheries New Zealand considers that Option B would not have long-term implications, as

the ACE carry forward provision would only be in place for the 2020/21 fishing year (1

April 2020 — 31 March 2021).

Option B has specific statutory consultation requirements under the Act, which have

been provided for through the consultation process.

Impact Summary Template | 8

Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
