Impact Summary: Enabling Catch
Entitlement carry forward for rock lobster
Section 1: General information
Purpose
The Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) and Fisheries New Zealand is solely
responsible for the analysis and advice set out in this Impact Summary, except as
otherwise explicitly indicated. This analysis and advice has been produced for the
purpose of informing:
e /n-principle policy decisions to be made by the Minister of Fisheries
e Final decisions to proceed with a policy change to be taken by Cabinet
Key Limitations or Constraints on Analysis
Representative bodies of the commercial rock lobster industry have indicated that a
collapse in demand for live export rock lobster to China has adversely impacted on those
who have caught rock lobster in advance of the end of the fishing year (31 March 2020),
or hold rock lobster annual catch entitlement (ACE) in the intention for supplying the
Chinese market. They note that this impact comes in addition to inability to supply to
alternative live export markets or profit from other lower value rock lobster products.
Fisheries New Zealand is not required to take any actions, but considers that there is an
opportunity to provide financial relief to rock lobster fishers unable to sell their rock
lobster and remaining ACE by allowing it to be carried forward into the next fishing year,
when live export markets are likely to improve, without impacting on the sustainability of
rock lobster stocks. Currently, fishers do not have the ability to carry forward rock lobster
ACE into the next fishing year, unlike most other species in the Quota Management
System (QMS).
Fisheries New Zealand consulted on three options in relation to enabling the carry
forward of rock lobster ACE, as follows:
A. Retaining the status quo — making no changes to the Act, and not enabling ACE
carry forward;
B. Enabling fishers to carry forward up to 10% of ACE holdings, if uncaught, and
C. In addition to Option B, also enabling the one-off carry forward of all uncaught
ACE.
Fisheries New Zealand did not consult on any other proportion of uncaught ACE to be
carried forward.
Fisheries New Zealand’s preliminary preference is Option B, but limiting this provision to
the 2020/21 fishing year only, as this would pose the least risk to any ongoing rock
lobster sustainability concerns.
Impact Summary Template | 4
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
