35. On that basis and due to the exceptional circumstances and urgent need to make a
decision prior to the end of the fishing year (31 March 2020), | propose to progress with
Option B on a temporary basis for one fishing year (1 April 2020 — 31 March 2021). This
will enable some financial relief to rock lobster fishers by providing them with flexibility to
defer some catch to the next fishing year.

36. This approach, while not supported by most of the industry, is supported by the majority of
Maori groups and some commercial interests. It provides the most appropriate balance
between providing for utilisation while ensuring sustainability.

Policy

37. At the start of each fishing year individual ACE holders are provided up to 10% of their
ACE holdings, which were not caught during the previous fishing year, under section 67A
of the Act®, unless the fish stock is listed on Schedule 5A or if the TACC has been reduced
for the coming fishing year.

38. Rock lobster is one of a small number of stocks currently included on Schedule 5A and
therefore it is necessary to amend the schedule to remove all rock lobster stocks allowing
for ACE to be carried forward.’

39. The Fisheries (Schedule 5A — Rock Lobster) Order 2020 will temporarily remove all rock
lobster stocks from Schedule 5A of the Act for one year to enable rock lobster ACE
holders to carry forward up to 10% of total rock lobster ACE holdings for the current fishing
year, if uncaught within the year, to the following fishing year.

40. Consistent with the approach taken for other fisheries, this amendment will not apply to
any rock lobster stocks where TACCs are reduced for the coming fishing year.° Rock
lobster stocks will continue to be closely monitored.

41. In order to be effective the Order will need to be in force by the start of the next fishing
year (1 April 2020) which is rapidly approaching. Accordingly, the 28 Day rule will need to
be waived. | consider this appropriate because of the urgent need to alleviate economic
impacts as a result of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), and because it is an enabling rather
than restrictive change.

42. The allocation of up to 10% carry forward entitlement will only be given to those individuals
who hold ACE for a rock lobster stock at the close of the ACE register for the fishing year,
as calculated under section 67A(2) of the Act.

® In accordance with section 67A of the Fisheries Act 1996, the carry forward amount is the lesser of the total

uncaught ACE or 10% of a fisher’s total ACE holding at the end of a fishing year.

7 There are currently 36 other stocks on this Schedule, many of which are shellfish species. At the time the

Schedule was developed it was considered that there would be no need to manage unexpected rock lobster catch

at the end of the fishing year, due to the precise nature of rock lobster harvesting.

8s 9(2)(f)(iv)

Page 6 of 10
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:07
