4.2 What other impacts is this approach likely to have?
's 9(2)(d)
Section 5: Stakeholder views
5.1 What do stakeholders think about the problem and the proposed solution?
Due to the tight timeframe for any proposed option to be in place for the 1 April 2020
fishing year, a truncated and targeted public consultation was held from 14 February to
24 February 2020.
Officials spoke directly with the following groups who have strong interests in the stock
(as required under the Act):
+ Te Ohu Kaimoana and Iwi Fisheries Forums Chairs;
+ NZ Rock Lobster Industry Council;
+ Key operators, including the Fiordland Lobster Company, Burkhardt’s Fishing,
Ngai Tahu and Southern Seafoods Ltd.;
+ Recreational fisheries bodies, including the New Zealand Sport Fishing
Council/Legasea and NZ Recreational Fishing Council;
+ Environmental Groups, including Forest and Bird, World Wildlife Fund and
Greenpeace;
+ Any members of the National Rock Lobster Management Group not already
covered.
Fisheries New Zealand directly contacted the Chairs of Iwi Fisheries Forums and Te
Ohu Kaimoana to facilitate additional engagement with Maori, as well as with
Government agencies, including the Department of Conservation, Ministry for the
Environment and Te Puni Kokiri.
Targeted emails were sent to stakeholders including iwi representatives and commercial
fishers, and also distributed through iwi forums.
In total 369 submissions were received from Maori and stakeholder groups (commercial,
recreational, environmental, independent experts, and the general public/unspecified). A
full summary of submissions has been provided to the Minister separately [B20-0091].
Non-commercial interests favoured Option A (status quo) primarily due to sustainability
concerns, contributing to approximately 49% of all submissions.
There was limited support for Option B (up to 10% carry forward in perpetuity as initially
consulted on), at approximately 13% of all submissions. Treaty Partners and a range of
commercial fishing interests favoured Option B, with some including support for a one-
year carry forward provision, on the basis that it would not affect sustainability and that it
provides rock lobster fishers with the same catch flexibility and equity as most other
fisheries.
Impact Summary Template | 12
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:19
