In Confidence

Office of the Minister of Fisheries

Chair, Cabinet Legislation Committee

FISHERIES (SCHEDULE 5A — Rock Lobster) ORDER 2020 —- ENABLING CARRY

FORWARD OF ROCK LOBSTER ANNUAL CATCH ENTITLEMENT

Proposal

1. This paper:

1.1. is an urgent response to the impacts of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) on New
Zealand’s rock lobster industry;

1.2. proposes to temporarily remove all rock lobster stocks from Schedule 5A of the
Fisheries Act 1996 (the Act) for one fishing year (1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021),
by way of Order in Council, to enable rock lobster annual catch entitlement (ACE)
holders to carry forward up to 10% of total rock lobster ACE holdings for the
fishing year, if uncaught, to the following fishing year; and

1.3. recommends that the Cabinet Legislation Committee authorise the submission of
the Fisheries (Schedule 5A — Rock Lobster) Order 2020 to the Executive Council.

Executive Summary

2. China is the leading export market for live New Zealand rock lobster, accounting for about
98% of all exports ($299.7 million). The outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) has led to
the collapse of demand for live rock lobster in the Chinese market, particularly as it
coincided with the Chinese New Year period. This has led to New Zealand’s commercial
rock lobster fishing industry experiencing severe and unexpected market disruptions.

3. As of 24 February, Fisheries New Zealand estimated that around 388 tonnes of rock
lobster ACE remains uncaught (14% of total ACE for the fishing year ending 31 March
2020)'. Fisheries New Zealand estimates the value of this uncaught rock lobster at around
$44 million, based on submissions from industry and typical export prices. Industry report
that some fishers will be severely impacted if unable to catch and sell their uncaught ACE.

4. Industry approached government seeking support to respond to the Coronavirus (COVID-
19) impacts on the Chinese market. There are opportunities to provide relief to rock lobster
fishers unable to catch and sell their remaining ACE, in conjunction with measures they
can take themselves to mitigate market impacts, without impacting sustainability of the
stock. These opportunities include allowing the return of rock lobster in holding facilities to
sea, allowing industry to carry forward their ACE, ACE trading between fishers to reduce
individuals’ ACE liabilities and finding alternative export markets.

5. On 5 February, | agreed to allow the industry to release live rock lobster currently held at
sea and on land, provided specific biosecurity and survivability criteria are able to be met.
This issue required an urgent decision as rock lobsters in holding facilities are held for
varying amounts of time and the length of time they are held, along with conditions in
which they are held influences their survivability S92)@)W)

‘ Landings information is reconciled monthly at the middle of each month.

Page 1 of 10
Sayiwiyy7x 2020-03-12 14:00:07
