IN CONFIDENCE

13. Given the necessary physical restrictions still needed at lower Alert Levels, these
difficulties are likely to continue to affect the ability of these Class 3 operators to
fundraise using lotteries as we move down from Alert Level 4. This is because there
will be limited volunteer numbers (a large number of volunteers are senior and would
be advised to remain at home), cancellations of and limitations around public
gatherings, and closure of public venues which will continue to impact the ability for
these organisations to undertake face-to-face sales and street appeals for their
lotteries.

14. In August and September 2019, as part of the online gambling review, the Dep ent
of Internal Affairs (the Department) consulted publicly on whether Class 3 o;
should be able to run their lotteries online or via phone.

15. Policy work to develop a regulatory system for online gamblin: eS with the
current timeline for legislation coming into force in 2022. Froi espondence
and discussions with some Class 3 operators, 2022 is too fi them to remain
financially viable. COVID-19 has exacerbated the 1 ulties Class 3
operators are experiencing and, without the legislativ: nt proposed in this
paper, it is likely Class 3 operators will not have ing they need to continue
their crucial work. This could ultimately fallba ‘rown to consider shortfalls
for these vital services, in the absence of t! oe posal I am seeking.

16. Community organisations will lose a lot of ing as a result of COVID-19, in part
because there will be a significant decline in community funding as a result of the
decrease in gambling during the . During and after lockdown, we need our
charitable sector to be ready t New Zealanders. It is crucial they can
maintain their existing fundi to provide this support.

17. There are some risk ia ed with this proposal. However, I do not consider these
outweigh the ben ciated with these Class 3 operators being able to support
themselves by TaN draising revenue and passing this on to New Zealanders
through suppor provided by these community organisations.

18. Subject to yi proval, this amendment has been accepted for inclusion in the
OS ibus Bill by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.

Analysi:

propose amending the Act to remove the prohibition for the next 18 months on
remote interactive gambling for existing Class 3 operators
),
licensed to undertake lotteries in the year prior to the amendment coming into force,
to the extent they can:
1. send and receive order forms for their lotteries by email or by phone;
2. take payments online or by phone; and
3. send tickets by email.
3
IN CONFIDENCE
