IN CONFIDENCE

Associated risks and mitigation

20. There are potential risks associated with this change. These are outlined below,
though it is important to recognise that the Ministry of Health has assessed this type
of lottery as low risk in terms of gambling harm. This assessment is based on the
current _ of a draws, which is ™“

21. This proposed amendment is a fast-tracked amendment that was already being
developed as part of the online gambling review. The 18 months that this prop
will be in force, is to allow time for the wider online gambling review to be
completed. Limiting this proposal to these Class 3 operators licensed to
lotteries in the previous year, will mean we can manage any risks associa’ the
amendment. My intention is not to grow this class of gambling, but i isting
organisations maintain their current fundraising revenue. Makingsthe ent
timebound (i.e. tied to certain Alert levels), would fail to give $s 3 operators,
and in turn the people reliant on their services, a sense 4)

22. [also intend to ensure that the current restrictions aro ion of the lottery are
adhered to. Therefore, I am not proposing to allow operators to advertise more
widely than they are currently permitted to licensing conditions.

Potential for increase in gambling

23. It is not expected that this proposal will\substantially increase ticket sales compared to
sales numbers before Alert Lev: implemented. This proposal is a
mechanism for these Class 3 0 to mnaintain the sales they had prior to the
COVID-19 situation. g)

This proposal will only apply wader Yass 3 operators running lotteries

24. As this proposal de organisation’s survival and ongoing financial viabili
in the face of Lam proposing that onl

will be able to sell tickets
online or . | do not envisage this proposal being used as a mechanism for
substanti sion of this type of gambling.

Harm ass6c: ith Class 3 lotteries running by phone and email

arge-scale and high-frequency lotteries could pose an increased risk for harm. The
Act does not currently set a limit for the number of lotteries an organisation can run.
However, these are not high frequency lotteries. For example.

. This means there is no
element of continuous gambling, where gamblers are immediately able to re-invest
their winnings, which we know to be a particularly harmful form of gambling.
Further, the proposed amendment is not intended as a mechanism to extend the
number of draws these organisations currently run. The Department will provide
guidance regarding draw frequency to these Class 3 operators.

4
IN CONFIDENCE
