IN CONFIDENCE
fundraising levels as street appeals, another channel for receiving donations, have
stopped. Further, cheques, the main method of payment used by purchasers, are being
phased out, which makes payment during Alert Level four even more difficult as
Class 3 operators cannot take payments electronically.

7. There is a risk that prolonged restrictions under the alert levels, imposed in response
to the COVID-19 pandemic, will further limit the fundraising revenue of these Class 3
operators through the gambling system. I propose amending the Act to remove some
of the restrictions on these Class 3 operators selling their lottery tickets electronically
or by digital means for a period of 18 months until the wider online gambling review
is completed. This will enable these Class 3 operators to have an avenue of sel
lottery tickets and allow them to continue supporting themselves, and member:
conununity that rely on their services.

8. Lottery ticket sales generate a large amount of revenue that is used t elr
services. For the year ended 2019, lottery ticket sales generated 0 for the
Heart Foundation. This figure made up 41.2% of the Heart Fo 2s revenue for
that year. Similarly, lottery ticket sales generated $3,276,01 tguard New
Zealand in 2018/19. This made up 26% of Coastguard’s 1

9. While there are some risks associated wit sal, I do not consider these
outweigh the benefits associated with these @lass 3 operators being able to support
themselves financially and passing thisyon to Zealanders through support
provided by these community o: isations. Further, the Ministry of Health has
assessed these Class 3 lotteries Ny in terms of gambling harm.

Background

10. These Class 3 operators, that eries for fundraising purposes are prohibited
under Section 9 o: cttojconduct remote interactive gambling. This means they
cannot run fundrai ‘eries by any interaction through a communication device,
including onli: 0 eb-based payments, electronically by email, or over the
phone.

11. Prior t beds these Class 3 operators were already experiencing fundraising
gy to the:

ictions placed on them by the Act, by not being able to sell tickets by
electronic means; and
2. phasing out of cheques, which is the only real payment method left for these
operators to receive money and comply with the Act.

12. These difficulties are now exacerbated by the COVID-19 Alert Level four lockdown,
because they are not able to run street appeals, have people selling their tickets in
person, or have people processing postal ticket purchases. This is affecting their
financial viability.

1 These figures come from the annual statements of the respective organisations available on their website or

through the annual statements filed with Charities Services.

2
IN CONFIDENCE
