...and urgent regulation amendment is required to ensure clients do not need to

reapply for some types of benefit payments

36 MSD has also considered what other initiatives could be implemented to help manage
demand for services and ensure health and safety of clients and staff. MSD proposes to
progress the following initiatives, which will require Cabinet agreement to amend the relevant
regulations. As agreed yesterday, work on the IT changes for this has already started.

ee
J. Temporarily remove the This will impact approximately Moderate impact on freeing up
need for Temporary Additional | 70,000 clients per month. capacity
Support reapplications
Clients would not need to go
through the frequent and
onerous reapplication process.
K. Clear any 52-week This will impact approximately Moderate impact on freeing up
reapplications for Jobseeker 25,000 clients per month. capacity
Support and Sole Parent
Support Clients would not need to go
through onerous reapplication
This will extend out all upcoming | process.
reapplications dates by another
52 weeks, essentially making the
review gap 104 weeks.
“This initiative requires the
change to be in place beyond the
initial six months due to what IT
changes are feasible in the
timeframes.

37 To implement these changes, | seek agreement to amend the Social Security Regulations
2018 under sections 441(1), 441(2)(c), 428(1) and 428(2)(g) of the Social Security Act 2018,
and make an Order in Council under section 15(1) of the Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006
which will enable MSD to have the discretion to exempt specified recipients of Temporary
Additional Support (TAS), Jobseeker Support and Sole Parent Support from temporarily
having to reapply in exceptional circumstances.

38 Sections 441(1) and 441(2)(c) of the Social Security Act provides for regulations to be made
that allow MSD to specify circumstances in which MSD may consider an exemption from
expiry of any specified benefits (eg, Jobseeker Support and Sole Parent Support). Sections
428(1) and 428(2)(g) of the Act provides for regulations to be made that allow MSD to
prescribe the period or periods for which TAS may be granted.

39 Section 15(1) of the Epidemic Preparedness Act also enables the Governor-General, by
Order in Council made on the recommendation of the Minister of the Crown responsible for
the administration of an enactment, to modify any requirement or restriction imposed by the
enactment. An Order in Council will be required to ensure that the proposed changes to TAS
will also apply to people who have been granted TAS prior to the commencement of the
proposed amendments to the Social Security Regulations 2018.

40 These amendments will ensure that our clients can continue to access financial assistance,
including in potential future circumstances that could include:
