40.1 a pandemic such as COVID-19
40.2 other national or local emergencies, for example, an event similar to the 2010/11
Christchurch earthquakes.

41 These changes to the Regulations would allow MSD to respond to the exceptional
circumstance for as long as necessary and return to business as usual without requiring
further regulation amendments. It also enables a rapid response without changing existing
policy settings, as the requirement to periodically reapply for certain benefits would remain in
place in normal circumstances.

42 's 9(2)(h)

However, if MSD does not extend the timeframes:
42.1 not all clients will be able to meet their requirements for TAS reapplication and the 52-
week reapplication, where pandemic lock-down rules apply
42.2 entitlements could expire*, and eligible people would be left without income or be put in
hardship, and
42.3 additional pressure would be placed on MSD phone lines and processing staff to
maintain existing entitlements.

43 For TAS, MSD intends to push the date of reapplication out by six months initially (aligning
with the other proposals in this paper).

44 The cost of shifting the 13-week reapplication timeframe for all existing clients to six months
into the future could cost as much as $28m. This cost does not include any new clients who
would be subject to the same change.

45 For 52-week reapplications, our initial approach would be to push individual reapplication
dates for all clients out by a further 12 months. This will in effect mean that people will not
have to reapply for their respective benefits for 104 weeks.

46 The rationale for this is to free up frontline resources now and ensure that MSD would be able
to resume reapplications as normal after 12 months. It also reflects what is feasible within the
IT system, as 52-week applications are unable to be deferred for six months, but can be
cleared from the system.

47 MSD estimate that 25,000 existing clients have a 52-week reapplication expiry or letter due to
be sent in the next month. Over a year there are approximately 300,000 reapplications. The
current estimated cost is approximately $49m for 12 months, based on existing client
numbers and previous modelling that assumed some attrition from automatic benefit
cancellations that would not happen. The costs are likely to rise as more people come on to a
main benefit.

48 The attached Social Security (COVID-19 — Temporary Additional Support and Expiry and
Regrant of Benefits) Amendment Regulations 2020 (the Amendment Regulations) and the
Order in Council enable MSD to have discretion to temporarily exempt from expiry specified

4 Clients, whose benefit has been cancelled due to their failing reapplication requirements, have to apply for assistance as

anew applicant.
