6 In addition, | have delayed the commencement of clients contributing 25 percent of their
income to their Emergency Housing costs for those accessing an Emergency Housing
Special Needs Grant.

7 lam seeking authorisation to urgently amend the Social Security Regulations 2018 and make
an Order in Council, in order to temporarily enable Temporary Additional Support, Sole Parent
Support and Jobseeker Support recipients to continue receiving this assistance without
having to reapply.

8 | propose that most of these measures are active for an initial period of six months.

9  Asapackage, these will free up capacity for frontline MSD staff to deliver essential services,
reduce the number of non-essential GP visits, and ensure clients can continue to access
income support.

40 s 9(2)(f(iv)

11 Allof these changes represent massive, unprecedented changes to MSD’s operating model
and have an unclear, but likely significant fiscal cost. This is particularly the case as demand
for income support grows. However, | believe this is balanced by the exceptional
circumstances. These measures will continue until it is identified by officials and Ministers that
MSD, alongside other government agencies, can resume its ‘business as usual’ services. |
will keep Cabinet updated on the impact of these measures and whether it is likely to be
necessary to extend these changes.

MSD is preparing to deliver services differently in response to COVID-19

12 MSD generally has the capacity to manage unforeseen events, such as natural disasters and
other emergencies. However, COVID-19 has had an unprecedented societal and economic
impact on New Zealand and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

13 The benefit system remains available for those requiring financial assistance during this
period of uncertainty. However, the impact of COVID-19 is beginning to exceed MSD’s
current capacity to take on new work and maintain ‘business as usual’ levels of services.

14 For example, demand for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy scheme and the COVID-19 Leave
Payment scheme, which were announced on 17 March 2020, has been higher than expected.
As at 11pm on 24 March 2020, MSD had received applications from employers for a COVID-
19 Wage Subsidy or Leave Support scheme for approximately 611,434 employees. Demand
for food-related Special Needs Grants has gone up 17 percent in the week ending 20 March
2020.

45 S78)

This is likely to lead to
exponential growth in the number of New Zealanders requiring support from the welfare
system.

16 In addition, following the recent announcement moving New Zealand to COVID-19 Alert Level
4 by Wednesday 25 March 2020, MSD service centres across the country have been closed
to public access, ceasing all face-to-face engagements. MSD client services are now
provided online or on the phone.
