24 The following table outlines the temporary initiatives that MSD has the discretion to
implement, and the likely impact they will have on clients and MSD. These initiatives could
free up staff capacity and improve client experience immediately. MSD is currently
implementing the IT changes for these initiatives to be in place by Friday 27 March 2020, with
the changes taking effect for clients from Monday 30 March for an initial period of six months.
Many of these initiatives will also reduce pressure on the health system by reducing non-
essential GP visits from clients.

a
A. Temporarily remove the This would impact Moderate impact on freeing up
requirement to provide approximately 30,000 clients a capacity across centralised
subsequent work capacity month. services and contact centres.
medical certificates

Costs related to getting medical | ** This could create a lot of
This applies to clients receiving: | certificates expected to reduce additional capacity for GPs.
for clients.
- Jobseeker Support on the
grounds of a health If a client's capacity to work
condition, injury or disability | worsens, clients could
(JS-HCD) potentially miss out on
transitioning to Supported Living
- Sole Parent Support (SPS) | Payment.
with work obligations
deferrals due to a health
condition or a disability
(either their own or their
child’s)
- Partners of main
beneficiaries with work
obligations deferrals due to
a health condition, injury or
disability
B. Defer Disability Allowance | This would impact Significant impact on freeing up
reviews for approximately 26,000 clients a capacity across centralised
increased/additional costs month. services and contact centres.
and for confirming ongoing
medical eligibility Clients would not need to go ** This could also create
through an onerous process of additional capacity for GPs.
verifying their new or increased
costs or obtaining a disability
certificate.
C. Extend out the review This would impact Removes requirement for clients
period for Child Disability approximately 4,000 clients per | to contact MSD
Allowance month.
Eligibility will continue to cease
for clients whose child turns 18
years old or is granted a main
benefit.
D. Defer review of health This would impact Removes requirement for client
conditions for Supported approximately 2,000 clients per | to contact MSD.
Living Payment clients month.
