In Confidence
GAYA sree)
This briefing is to update you on the measures Corrections is taking to mitigate the risks posed
by COVID-19.
A Coordinated Incident Management System (CIMS) structure has been established within
Corrections to coordinate the organisation-wide response.
Business continuity protocols have been activated to ensure critical functions remain
operational.
Heightened prison border control measures will be implemented at 1am 24 March 2020. These
measures include the suspension of visits and protective measures for vulnerable prisoners.
Community work activities undertaken by those serving community sentences have been
temporarily suspended from 1am 23 March 2020.
Wider sector engagement is progre aie bis is enc ing appa ate Depart onial aatian
to changes being made elsewhere jaa
s9(2)(F)(iv)
Corrections has moved to ensure all future work is aligned with the Government alert levels 1-4.

Background

1 The Department of Corrections is a critical public service, responsible for delivering
services that keep New Zealand communities safe.

2 Corrections has been preparing for the impact of COVID-19 on our operations since
January 2020. Initially this included providing all staff with information from the Ministry of
Health about practising good personal hygiene and ensuring that our business continuity
plans are up to date and fit for purpose. As the situation evolved, we continued to support
staff by providing information through a dedicated section on the staff intranet, Tatou,
along with regular email updates from the Chief Executive and National Commissioner.

3 As the situation evolved, and self-isolation measures were introduced for people returning
to New Zealand from overseas, we moved quickly to ensure that staff who had recently
travelled or were overseas at the time were well supported to comply with any obligation
to self-isolate.

Coordinated Incident Management System (CIMS) structure

4 To coordinate our response to managing the impact of COV|D-19 on our operations,
Corrections has now commenced an Emergency Coordination Centre using the
Coordinated Incident Management System model.

5 The initial Incident Management Team is lead by Megan Main (Deputy Chief Executive)
as Incident Controller. The Controller is supported by the following functions Health,
Safety & Wellbeing, Intelligence, Planning, Operations, Sector, Logistics, and Public
Information Management. The Controller is also supported by a Response Manager,
technical experts (Human Resources and Legal), and Iwi/Maori representation. The four
Regional Commissioners also form part of the Incident Management Team. Appendix One
shows the structure of the Incident Management Team.

a
B4006
