Sensitive - Budget
customer housing rate series and the RBNZ 90 days bank bill rate series,
respectively.

37. | These formulas should be reviewed as a long-term project on the Government's tax
policy work programme. We do not recommend a formula change now as the policy
implications of doing so have not yet been properly considered.

A change in the rate of UOMI under the normal regulatory process

38. The normal UOMI rate-setting process is undertaken on a continuous basis by
officials. Under this process, the rates of UOMI have to be adjusted whenever either
of the tracking series for the under- and over-payment rates changes by a certain
amount. That amount is 100 basis points since the last UOMI review, or 20 basis
points over a 12-month period.

39. Officials have noted there is a chance that UOMI rates will be updated given the
current direction of the underlying series that are tracked in the formulas. If the
Official Cash Rate were to be cut as a monetary policy response to COVID-19
(expected by some sectors), this would increase the likelihood that either of the
tracking series will fall by enough to trigger a UOMI rate review.

40. If a rate review were triggered, then the rate of UOMI would be lowered through
the normal regulatory process. Officials’ current recommendation is to allow this
process to occur rather than pre-emptively cutting the rate or changing the formula.
Based on the current floating first mortgage rate, the rate of UOMI would be reduced
from 8.35% to 7.76%.

Fiscal impacts

UOMI remission

41. There is no direct fiscal cost from the proposal to give the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue discretion to remit UOMI in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. There
would be a negative financial implication for the Crown as this policy change would
result in foregone UOMI revenue. However, as the Government's fiscal forecasts do
not currently include COVID-19-related interest charges, their remission will have
no impact on the fiscal position.

42. There are, however, a number of risks associated with this proposal:

42.1 Decreasing the incentive to pay tax when it falls due (in smaller instalments)
could result in some taxpayers being unable to pay their larger tax bill at a
later date, which could result in core tax not being recoverable; and

42.2 Taxpayers who would have been subject to UOMI penalties under ordinary
economic circumstances could also face COVID-19-related stress. Remitting
UOMI penalties for these taxpayers would have a fiscal cost (albeit
unquantifiable), as some share of the remitted interest would have related
to non-COVID-19 drivers.

43. More broadly, there is a risk that remitting UOMI could lead to the deliberate
underpayment of tax in situations where the tax would have ordinarily been paid in
full and on time, with delays potentially crossing fiscal years.

44. These risks will impact on the fiscal position if they materialise. We are unable to
quantify the materiality of the potential impacts.

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 5 of 8

SENSITIVE
