Sensitive - Budget

27. This provision would be limited to information sharing only and would not extend
Inland Revenue’s information gathering powers. The provision would apply from the
date of assent of the bill that it is included in.

Other measures: provisional tax

28. You have requested that officials look at other tax measures relating to provisional
tax that could be made to assist businesses in dealing with the economic impacts
of COVID-19.

29. These tax measures are not included in the draft Cabinet paper. Officials are
preparing a further report on these measures. The current recommendations for
that report include:

29.1 Increasing the provisional tax threshold from $2,500 to $5,000;

29.2 Removing the requirement for a taxpayer to make payments to fall within
the provisional tax safe harbour rule; and

29.3 Increasing the income threshold to use AIM from $5 million to $10 million.

30. Although these measures are being considered in a separate report, they could be
included in the same bill as the UOMI remission and information sharing provisions
if Ministers agree to them.

Reducing the rate of UOMI

Directly reducing the rate of UOMI

ai. At this stage we do not recommend significantly reducing the rate of UOMI as a
response to COVID-19. This is because it will benefit taxpayers that are not
adversely affected. Lowering the rate will also create a disincentive to pay tax.
These outcomes are counter to our current framework that unaffected taxpayers
should continue to pay their tax.

32. With a lower rate of UOMI, taxpayers are incentivised to pay other debt ahead of
their tax or stop paying their tax altogether. There are operational measures that
Inland Revenue could undertake to mitigate this impact, but officials consider that
the resources required to do this could be better deployed assisting affected
businesses.

33. The role of tax pooling companies also needs to be taken into account when
considering a reduction in the rate of UOMI. These companies provide an important
service to taxpayers.

34. In terms of measures relating to UOMI, officials consider that targeted remission is
a better policy response. It would ensure that unaffected taxpayers are not
encouraged to stop paying their tax, but it would assist eligible taxpayers that are
financially affected by the economic impact of COVID-19.

35. If the immediate and developing economic disruption caused by COVID-19 changes,
and a greater proportion of businesses are negatively impacted by COVID-19, there
may be a case for revisiting the overall rate of UOMI.

Reviewing the UOMI rate-setting formulas

36. The formulas for calculating the UOMI rate for under- and over-payments of tax
track the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) floating first mortgage new

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 4 of 8

SENSITIVE
