Sensitive - Budget

17. UOMI remission will apply only for tax payments due on or after 14 February 2020.
This is the date that Inland Revenue announced that tax relief and income
assistance measures would be available to people affected by a downturn in
business owing to the COVID-19 outbreak.

18. | The proposed discretion would only apply for two years from the date of enactment
unless extended by an Order in Council. This would ensure that the discretion to
remit UOMI is targeted at taxpayers affected by the current COVID-19 outbreak.

Provisions for information sharing

Background

19. The current rules require Inland Revenue to keep taxpayer information confidential
unless a specific legislative exception authorises the disclosure. There are a number
of exceptions in the tax legislation enabling Inland Revenue to share information
with other agencies. These existing exceptions will be used, where possible, to share
information with other agencies to assist in the response to the COVID-19 outbreak.

20. However, there may be situations where, as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, the
Government may require Inland Revenue to share information with other agencies
with which Inland Revenue does not have any existing arrangements or where the
existing arrangements are not flexible enough to enable the required sharing to
occur.

Proposal

24. Officials recommend legislative amendments to allow Inland Revenue to share
information with other agencies in order to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak. This
provision will be targeted, time limited, and only used when existing legislative
provisions are not adequate to share information.

22. A similar provision enabled Inland Revenue to share information as part of the
response to the Canterbury earthquake and this proposal is modelled on that earlier
provision.

23. The proposal would enable Inland Revenue to share information with Government
departments and the New Zealand Police, ACC, and Kainga Ora, to help those
agencies provide assistance in relation to the COVID-19 outbreak.

24, The information would relate to both individuals and non-individuals and may
include, but is not limited to, identifying information, contact and location
information, financial information, and family information. The purpose of the
amendment is to facilitate the efficient flow of information to ensure that the
government’s wider programmes responding to the economic shock caused by the
COVID-19 outbreak are effective and correctly targeted.

25. The provision would apply for a period of two years only unless extended by an
Order in Council. This would enable the Government to continue sharing
information, if required, in response to COVID-19 after the two-year period.

26. Currently, tax legislation requires those persons who have access to taxpayer
information under an information sharing provision to keep that information
confidential and not disclose it or use it for a purpose other than that for which it
was provided. This requirement will also apply to the proposed information sharing
provision to assist in the response to the COVID-19 outbreak.

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 3 of 8

SENSITIVE
