Sensitive - Budget

11 March 2020

Minister of Finance

Minister of Revenue

Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures

Introduction

. This report sets out tax measures that can be implemented as part of the
Government's response to the economic impact of COVID-19. Officials seek your
agreement to implement these proposals. Attached is a draft paper for your review
that seeks the agreement of the Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 (CVD) to
the measures.

2. The measures include the following:

2.1 Remission of use of money interest (UOMI); and
2.2. Expanding Inland Revenue’s information sharing powers to support the
response to COVID-19.

3. In addition to the above, officials will provide advice on potential changes to
provisional tax in a separate report. These measures include:

3.1 Increasing the provisional tax threshold (bringing forward existing Budget
2020 initiative);

3.2 Removing the requirement to make payments to fall within the safe harbour
rule; and

3.3. Increasing the income threshold to use the accounting income method
(AIM).

4, At this stage we do not recommend significantly reducing the rate of UOMI as a
response to COVID-19. This is because it will benefit taxpayers that are not
adversely affected. Lowering the rate will also create a disincentive to pay tax.
These outcomes are counter to our current framework that unaffected taxpayers
should continue to pay their tax. If the immediate and developing economic
disruption caused by COVID-19 changes and a greater proportion of businesses are
negatively impacted by COVID-19, there may be a case for revisiting the overall
rate of UOMI.

be We expect that a UOMI rate reduction will be triggered under the normal regulatory
process next month. This would mean that the rates of UOMI could be lowered
through the normal regulatory process without requiring any legislative changes.

6. Officials will provide you with a finalised Cabinet paper on Thursday 12 March based
on the recommendations you agree to in this report and following any other
comments you wish to make on the draft Cabinet paper.

Context

ve The measures outlined in this report are all intended to address microeconomic
problems on a targeted basis, such as a business that needs relief due to the
economic impact of COVID-19. Hence, options like UOMI remission are intended to
deal with taxpayers on a case-by-case basis rather than have broad application.

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 1 of 8

SENSITIVE
