Sensitive - Budget

Information sharing

45. There are no fiscal impacts for the proposals relating to information sharing.

Administrative implications

46. Inland Revenue has not yet completed a full impact assessment of these proposals
and will need to do this, including identifying any resourcing implications, once
details of eligibility criteria are more developed.

47. The changes proposed to UOMI will generate additional contacts of a complex nature
for Inland Revenue as people seek advice on how these changes impact their
situation. The retrospective nature of the changes adds to the complexity. Inland
Revenue is already under pressure to manage customer demand from the upcoming
Business Transformation Release 4 changes, and the beginning of the 2020 auto-
calculation period. There are additional expected cumulative impacts which Inland
Revenue also need to manage, including Budget 2020 items, further COVID-19
responses, and the impact of reduced baselines due to the reduction of time-limited
funding.

48. To manage this additional demand Inland Revenue will need to factor this into
managing this peak season and given the likely resource contentions, re-
prioritisation decisions would need to be made. The impact of not having sufficient
capacity and capability is likely to be a sub-optimal customer experience and will
potentially impact on performance standards.

49. These changes will require community and stakeholder engagement. This includes
the UOMI remission facility for affected taxpayers which will require communication
of the eligibility criteria. Inland Revenue intends to publish guidance to assist
taxpayers in deciding whether they should seek this sort of relief.

50. Although some of the measures described in this paper are intended to be targeted
at taxpayers that are significantly financially affected by the economic impact of
COVID-19, there will be some applications for relief from taxpayers who have not
been adversely affected. Inland Revenue staff will need to assess risk when
actioning these requests and in doing so will be supported by our new systems
which will help identify cases needing closer inspection.

51. Note that these proposals are potentially smaller than economy-wide initiatives that
could be announced in future as a response to COVID-19. Any allocation of
resources now not only detracts from current business operations but may also
impose constraints on resourcing future responses to COVID-19.

Next steps

52s Based on the measures you agree to, we will provide you with a finalised paper on
Thursday 12 March for you to take to the Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19
(CVD) on 18 March 2020.

53. The finalised CVD paper that you take on 18 March 2020 will seek policy approval
for the tax measures you agree to in this report. Subject to CVD’s agreement, there
are two options for legislating. Either:

53.1 CVD delegates authority to the Minister of Revenue to introduce a bill
containing the measures as soon as practicable; OR

53.2 A paper is taken to Cabinet Legislation Committee on 31 March 2020
authorising the introduction of a tax bill containing the measures.

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 6 of 8

SENSITIVE
