Sensitive - Budget

8. This report does not consider how tax responses should address COVID-19 at a
macroeconomic level. However, officials will provide advice on potential
macroeconomic tax measures shortly.

Remission of UOMI

Background

9. The purpose of use of money interest (UOMI) is to compensate the Government for
the time value of money lost due to taxpayers underpaying their tax.

a0. It applies to all tax types administered by Inland Revenue, including income tax and
GST. UOMI also applies to underpayments of tax that are withheld at source such
as PAYE and RWT. UOMI also applies to Working for Families debt.

11. Under the current rules in the Tax Administration Act 1994, remission of UOMI can
occur when an emergency event? physically prevents a taxpayer from paying their
tax. For example, an Order in Council was used to this effect for the Hawke’s Bay
gastroenteritis outbreak in 2016 (IR2020/134 refers).

12. We consider that the current empowering provision for remitting interest on
underpaid tax is not fit for purpose to address circumstances where a taxpayer is
financially unable to pay their tax on time because of the economic impacts of
COVID-19.

Proposal

13; Officials recommend that a UOMI remission measure specific to COVID-19 is
legislated. This would give the Commissioner of Inland Revenue the discretion to
remit UOMI if a taxpayer’s ability to make a tax payment on time has been
significantly adversely affected by the COVID-19 outbreak. The discretion would
apply both when a taxpayer is financially unable to make a tax payment on time
because of the economic nature of the event as well as when they are physically
unable to make a tax payment on time.

14. — Officials support this option as it fits within our current framework for evaluating
tax policy responses to the economic impact of COVID-19; it does not incentivise
unaffected taxpayers to stop paying their taxes, and it supports affected taxpayers
to pay their tax when they are able to. It is a much more targeted measure than a
general reduction in the rate of UOMI (discussed later).

15. For the Commissioner of Inland Revenue to exercise this discretion, she must be
satisfied that the taxpayer’s ability to make a tax payment on time has been
significantly adversely affected by the COVID-19 outbreak. A taxpayer’s business
being significantly affected by COVID-19 would not be sufficient grounds for UOMI
to be remitted if they still had the ability to make a tax payment on time. As such,
UOMI is less likely to be remitted for a large business that has been adversely
affected by COVID-19 than a small-medium business as the large business is more
likely to have financial capability and cash reserves to make a tax payment by its
due date.

16. Inland Revenue is currently developing guidelines for the UOMI remission eligibility
criteria. The eligibility criteria for interest remission would be aligned where possible
with the eligibility criteria for the wage subsidy scheme that was announced on 9
March. In particular, taxpayers eligible to receive the wage subsidy payment would
be considered to have satisfied Inland Revenue’s criteria for UOMI remission.

* As defined in section 4 of the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002.

1R2020/139; T2020/616: Draft Cabinet paper: COVID-19: Tax measures Page 2 of 8

SENSITIVE
