44 MSD estimates that the self-declaration option would take on average 15 minutes longer to
process per application, while the verification required option would take on average 25
minutes longer per application to process.

45 If you agree to option 2a or 2b, MSD will continue to work on the most appropriate way to
verify if a stand-down should be waived.

46 It should also be noted that as options 2 and b rely heavily on staff discretion, the likelihood of
clients applying for a Review of Decision’ is likely to be increased. This could put additional
pressure on frontline staff resource to resolve these cases. 59(2Kh)

Financial implications

47 Asnoted in option 1, there the significant uncertainty around economic impacts of COVID-19.
It is not possible to estimate the number of people who will come onto benefit as a result of
job loss arising from it. | am recommending that this aspect of the funding is included in
subsequent demand-driven forecasting changes to the relevant Vote Social Development
appropriations.

48 Marginal cost for this change would be the same as with the previous option, around $0.3m
per 1,000 additional eligible applicants. Once again, by way of analogy only, if economic
impacts reflect those experienced during the GFC this policy change could be expected to
cost $14.437m over eight months’.

49 Operational impacts of this option would require allocating additional staff resourcing to
undertake. Funding may therefore be required in the medium term to mitigate further impact
to other core frontline activities. Though it is difficult to predict the magnitude of this impact
due to the uncertainty inherent in the situation, | think it is prudent to consider what this effect
may be. This is particularly the case due to the time it can take for additional funding for
resourcing to translate to additional trained staff.

50 MSD’s staffing requirements to deal with COVID-19 are being considered through the
Economic pillar of the Government's response to COVID-19. My officials will consider the
impacts of this policy decision when making recommendations and seeking any additional
funding through that process.

Amendment Regulations to give effect to the chosen option to remove stand-downs

51. Three sets of Amendment Regulations, one for each option, are provided alongside this
paper. | seek agreement for the Amendment Regulations of the preferred option to be
submitted to Executive Council.

6 A client can apply for a Review of Decision when they have received formal notification of, and do not agree

with, a decision that MSD has made, including the decision to apply or not apply a stand-down period.

7 Largely based off same data as base scenario; We used the growth in Jobseeker grants that occurred during

the GFC to increase the expected number of stand downs; This leads to an additional 4,000 - 14,000

Jobseeker grants per month; We assumed that this event would solely impact Jobseeker grants.
