MINISTRY OF
et ewsl
exemption should be considered The Ministry's Chief Medical Officer has
for selected groups. engaged widely with clinical colleagues in
the sector to identify issues, which are
Workforce sustainability of current and/or proposed | There have been isolated instances being managed actively.
measures of workforce issues regarding self- :
isolation Management of the supply chain for PPE
. supplies for the wider sector is being
established.
Officials are preparing advice for Ministers
with the power to act concerning possible
exemptions for tertiary students.
Epidemiology in China and worldwide e.g. Sustained transmission is ongoing | The increasing cases of community
containment or sustained transmission, direct travel | in mainland China. In most other transmission in a range of countries are
pathways to New Zealand and Australia from areas, there is more limited significant changes to the epidemiology.
major travel hubs fansmission although Some areas There have been increasing reports of
ave Suspe e or con met cases and deaths outside of China,
sustained transmission. . . .
including cases with no clear
There is a rapid daily increase in epidemiological link to Hubei.
Evolvi cases and clear evidence of There has been a steady increase in the
‘volving international spread from Iran.
idemiol f th number of deaths, but the number of
epidemiology of the Known exported case counts and
tbreak 7 : laboratory confirmed cases has started to
outbreal air travel links between Iran and F
~ slow down while the number of recovered
other countries are used to .
. cases has increased.
estimate the COVID-19 outbreak
size in Iran. This model estimates Of particular concern is the situation in
that over 18,000 cases would have _| Iran. There have been cases identified in a
had to occur in Iran, over a 1.5 number of countries who have had recent
month period in order to observe _| travel history to Iran.
the three internationally exported is 9(2)(g)(i)
cases (UAE, Lebanon and Canada).
3
