MINISTRY OF
et ewsl
MANATU HAUORA
Our assessment against the high-level review criteria is:
Factors for consideration for border measures review
High-level Factors for consideration Indicate if there has been a Overall comment
considerations NB theceactordnavelnotbeentwetgntediog change in this factor since the
ae last assessment
prioritised
Appropriate guidance documents and management | There is guidance available on the | The overall status of readiness of New
processes available for the health system Ministry of Health website for the | Zealand's health system to respond is
health sector and the general good. The DHBs have been asked to
public. Regular border advisories provide response plans to the Ministry.
are being issued and protocols for On 27 February 2020 the epidemiological
the management of the first case a eae .
. criteria for case definition was adjusted. It
and subsequent cases in New . . .
now includes two categories for countries
Zealand have been developed. A
. or areas of concern. Category One
i COVID-19 Strategic Response Plan countries which currently include
Readiness of New is currently being developed. . . my
Zealand’s health mainland China require travellers to self-
system to respond | scenario planning for potential impact on New There has been no change. isolate for 14 days. Category [wo .
to cases and/or Zealand's health system countries are countries or areas with
outbreak “% suspected or confirmed sustained
Current response aims (e.g. stage of NZIPAP) No Indicative health sector alert transmission. These countries include
code has been issued. NZ Hong Kong, Iran, Italy, Japan, Republic of
preparedness measures are Korea, Singapore and Thailand. People
currently being guided by the who have travelled from or via countries
‘Keep it Out” phases of the NZIPP. listed in category two who develop
symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of
Acceptability and feasibility of current measures for | There has been an increased breath should seek medical advice.
key stakeholders concern regarding international
students and whether an
