rule is a barrier to accessing the subsidy, and that confusion about its interpretation

is creating uncertainty for firms trying to make hugely consequential business

decisions.
34

17.

34 We believe any firms
able to make use of the current wage subsidy scheme will already have applied, and
now need a new scheme for firms for which the current scheme does not work.

18. Weare proposing to enhance the wage subsidy scheme to address these issues
now that we are moving into Alert Level 4 shutdown. The enhanced scheme would
support employers and employees to maintain an employment connectiomeven
though actual hours of work have reduced to zero. At the same time, it will continue
to provide support to firms that can or will need to operate (i.e. esSential Services and
employees able to work from home.

Key design features of the enhanced wage subsidy scheme

19. The objective of the proposed scheme is to ensure that.employers and workers
affected to varying degrees by COVID-19 and oumdetision to move to Alert Level 4
are supported to maintain an employment relationship, meet wage and living costs
and maintain a level of production consistént with public health imperatives, during
this period of disruption.

20. While the COVID-19 Alert System maybe applied at a regional level, the enhanced
scheme applies nationally to avoid, administrative complexity.

Key changes from the current scheme

21. We propose to make thesfollowing key changes and clarifications to settings under
the enhanced scheme:

21.1 Employersywill noalonger have to have experienced a 30% decline in revenue
to qualify;

21.2 Employers will be required to pass on at least the full rate of the subsidy to the
named employees in their application, regardless of the hours worked by
thoseyemployees;

213 The requirement on employers to make best endeavours to pay employees at
80% of income will be softened to paying 80% of income ‘if this is possible’;
and

21.4 The requirement to have taken measures to manage the implications of
COVID-19 on their business, will now specifically mention including drawing
on internal cash reserves as appropriate.

22. |The enhanced scheme will also have the detailed design features set out below.

Scope

Treasury:4258902v4
3
