Matter to be considered Comment
Section 164(2)(e)(ii) This Rule promotes access to essential services when AL3 and AL4
Whether the proposed rule restrictions are in place. Although public transport and small
improves access and mobility passenger services remain available in some areas, these do not
provide an alternative travel option for people living outside of the
main centres to undertake essential journeys (eg to collect
groceries or obtain routine healthcare). It also enables transport
service operators to maintain essential services and critical supply
chain operations.
Section 164(2)(e)(iii) Allowing people to continue to access essential services via private
Whether the proposed rule vehicle can help minimise transmission of the COVID-19 virus
protects and promotes public because it enables social distancing. It is also in line with current
health public health guidance stating that people who are unwell or
suspected of having COVID-19 and who must travel, should use
private motor vehicles.
Section 164(2)(e)(iv) Allowing continued use of some vehicles with expired WoF and CoF
Whether the proposed rule and driver licences may increase transport greenhouse gas
ensures environmental emissions. However, we consider that any environmental impacts
sustainability are mitigated by the significant restrictions otherwise in place
during AL3 and 4 on all but essential travel.
Section 164(2)(ea)
The costs of implementing
measures for which the rule is There are no additional costs of implementing this Rule.
being proposed
Section 164(2)(eb)
New Zealand's international 1 ‘ i . . are
obligations concerning land See oe impact on our international obligations
transport safety
Section 164(2)(f)
The international circumstances in | The Rule will have no direct impact on our international
respect of land transport safety circumstances in respect of land transport safety.
Section 164(2)(g) The Rule will give certainty to the public, enforcement staff and
Such other matters as you transport service operators on an issue of strong public concern.
consider appropriate in the
circumstances There has not been any public consultation on this draft rule. It has
been discussed with representatives of the AA, and Federation of
Motoring Clubs, who support its intent.
20. There are no specific matters in the Act that you need to have regard to before
recommending the Amendment Regulations be made.
Legal Advice on the Regulations Review Committee
21. Under section 152A(6) of the Act, ordinary rules are disallowable instruments for the purpose
of the Legislation Act 2012. Under section 41 of that Act, rules must be laid before the House
of Representatives not later than the sixteenth sitting day after they are made.
22: You have not referred a draft of the Rule to the Regulations Review Committee (the
Committee) under Standing Order 318(2). Withheld
under section
Oe 9(2)(h) of the
DT OlA
ee
[|
Page 6 of 10
