Matter to be considered Comment

Section 164(2)(a) The Rule will temporarily extend all WoFs and CoFs, driver licences

The level of risk existing to land and endorsements, and some vehicle certification documents.

transport safety in each proposed | Applicable documents that expired on or after 1 Jan 2020 (and

activity or service endorsements from 1 March 2020) would be deemed valid from the
date the Rule is in force. This would apply for no more than six
months after the rule comes into force.
While this extension may create some additional road safety risk,
we consider this risk is outweighed by the risk that some members
of the public may not otherwise have access to a private vehicle,
which is regarded as a critical lifeline at this time. It also enables
transport service operators to maintain critical supply chain and
essential services vehicles.
Moreover, the proposed change does not remove the existing and
separate legal requirements that a vehicle is safe to operate, and
for drivers to be medically fit to drive, and comply with the road
rules and any relevant restrictions on their licence. These
requirements will continue to be enforced by NZ Police.

Section 164(2)(b)

The nature of the particular This Rule means drivers will not be unnecessarily restricted from

activity or service for which the travelling to access essential services solely because a document

tule is being established has expired.

Section 164(2)(c)

The level of risk existing to land

transport safety in New Zealand in | As above.

general

Section 164(2)(d)

The need to maintain and improve

land transport safety and security,

including (but not limited to) ASiaboves

personal security

Section 164(2)(da)

The appropriate management of

infrastructure, including (but not

limited to)—

(i) the impact of vehicles on The Rule will have a marginal impact on the management of

infrastructure; and infrastructure relative to the broader impact of restrictions on travel
when AL3 or AL4 is in place.

(ii) whether the costs of the use of

the infrastructure are greater than

the economic value generated by

its use

Section 164(2)(e)(i)

Whether the proposed rule assists S a 2 7

economic development The Rule will have no direct impact on economic development.

Page 5 of 10
