Oo
HEALTH
MANATU HLAUORA

(TAG) has previously recommended that New Zealand remain aligned with Australia's

response from a public health perspective. Further advice has been sought from TAG

which confirms alignment with Australia.

9. Therefore, the Ministry of Health's updated advice as at 2 February 2020 is:

. to extend the travel history in the case definition for novel coronavirus infection to
include travel to mainland China (previously this was Hubei province in China,
particularly Wuhan)

. recommend to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to now increase the travel
advisory to level 4 — do not travel to any part of mainland China

. in order to substantially reduce the volume of travellers coming from mainland
China, that additional border measures be implemented to deny entry to New
Zealand to people who have left or transited through mainland China from 2
February 2020, with the exception of:

o New Zealand citizens (including those from the three Countries of the Realm),
permanent residents and their immediate family
© air crews who have been using appropriate personal protective equipment
(PPE).
This also applies to passengers transiting in New Zealand, unless they are New
Zealand citizens, permanent residents or their immediate families.

. as of today (02 February), all travellers arriving out of mainland China (not just Hubei
Province) be asked to self-isolate for a period of 14 days from the time they leave
mainland China.

10. Further consideration needs to be given to people travelling to Pacific countries who
are transiting via Auckland.

11. We advise to put these measures in place for an initial 14 day period and kept under
constant review.

12. The Prime Minister's Chief Science Advisor, Professor Juliet Gerrard and the Ministry of
Health's Chief Science Advisor, Professor lan Town have both provided input into this
advice.

13. As of today, the following countries are known to have closed their border to foreign
visitors who have been in China: USA, Australia, Singapore, North Korea, Mongolia, and
Nepal. A number of other countries have partial restrictions in place and/or are
considering border closures (see attached annex).

Proposed Health Border Measures

14, Advice from Customs is that approximately 3,500 passengers who have listed China as
their country of origin pass through New Zealand airports each day. Five to nine flights
come to New Zealand directly from mainland China each day (although this is fluctuating
due to the current situation) as well as two flights from Hong Kong and one from Taipei.
In addition, some passengers will have come to New Zealand from other countries. This
number of arrivals will significantly decrease if only New Zealand citizens, permanent
residents and their immediate families who have been in mainland China in the past
fourteen days are permitted to enter New Zealand.

15. Advice from the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) is that all people who have left or
transited through mainland China and enter New Zealand will need to go through

Health Report: 20200144 3
