¢ Fiscal stimulus

Actions already underway

Crayfish industry

15. The government has agreed to allow a limited release (subject to biosecurity concerns) of
live rock lobster back into the wild to mitigate the impact of the cancellation of a large number
of export orders by Chinese distributors. MPI is also investigating options to allow rock
lobster fishers to defer some harvesting into the next fishing year (which begins in April).

Tourism

16. The MBIE Tourism-chaired Visitor Sector Emergency Advisory Group (VSEAG) n
convened and is undertaking a number of actions to support the tourism sector a je.
These include: A)

a. MBIE, Tourism NZ (TNZ) and Tourism Industry Aotearoa (TIA) d y
messages for the media on the impact on tourism at the national , f encourage a
flow of accurate information and mitigate the burden on key rators who may
be approached for comment by multiple media outlets.

b. — Connecting the Ministry of Health (MoH) with soci cheba by the tourism
sector, including by TNZ and ATEED. These include’ language channels
which can provide effective means of communi information to Chinese visitors in
New Zealand.

c. Helping Regional Tourism Organisatio: tors in the regions to access key
messages from MoH and to know who to Gentact and work with in the event of visitors
to their regions becoming unwell.

17. In addition to this, Tourism NZ is als at shifting its marketing focus into other
markets through both re-deployin i resource and lifting its overall spend.

18. MBIE Tourism has provided t Mo of Tourism this week with an outline of possible cost
implications of these responses\(including bringing forward initiatives currently in the Budget
2020 process). It will, it to ensure that New Zealand is well positioned to welcome
visitors from China imi jiately after the current restrictions are lifted.

Information Provision wrap support

19. New Zealandfrade Enterprise (NZTE) has launched an informational landing page on
its website to fo porters affected by the Coronavirus outbreak.” The page collates and
aggregate ormiation from NZTE, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Ministry for
Prim ndustries to enable exporters to stay up-to-date on the latest developments.

re On the page will be updated daily.

20° erational arms of agencies (such as MBIE, NZTE, MPI, MFAT, Customs) have mobilised

sources to help directly affected exporters. For example, MPI have established regular
méetings with major primary sector producers and industry bodies to hear their concerns and
share information about impacts.

21. Agencies are also working with industry bodies and other organisations with the aim of
ensuring individuals and small businesses are aware of the support already available, for
example through Work and Income, Inland Revenue, existing Rural Support Trust services
and Federated Farmers’ Member Employment Lawyer free service.

? www.nzte.govt.nz/coronavirus

1738 19-20 In Confidence 5
