MSD considers its standard suite of assistance is appropriate but is monitoring the
situation. If needed, benefit stand down periods can be reduced.

30. From a tax perspective, excessive provisional tax payments can be refunded. Under current
settings, businesses that have paid provisional tax and are experiencing a substantial
deterioration in sales can re-estimate their tax liability and receive a refund of excess tax
paid. Inland Review will provide appropriate communication to affected taxpayers.

31. Similarly, student loan interest charges are levied if a borrower is overseas for more than six
months. New Zealand-based borrowers who intend to be overseas for less than six months
but whose return is delayed by travel restrictions or illness can apply to Inland Revenue for
their loan to no accrue interest.

Emergency business support and sector specific support packages >

32. The Minister for Economic Development has in the past provided emergencys
support where an event has had an isolated impact on a specific geographical@rea. For
example, the 2016 North Canterbury earthquakes, 2017 flooding in Edgéc "or the
disruption from Cyclone Gita in 2018. Since 2016, the government d a total of
almost $21 million, with just over $17 million going to subsidy sup) e North
Canterbury earthquakes.

33. That intervention provides targeted support directly to indivi Abuses for an event which
has a largely known duration and impact. Eligible busin: s this support by
submitting a bespoke application with applications as: administered by an
independent panel.

34. Given the diffuse nature of the impacts curren! It, and the uncertainty of the
duration and longer term impact, officials would atgue against the deployment of firm level
support. It would be challenging to identify affected firms (particularly those indirectly
affected) and the administrative co: ime taken to deliver support would be substantial
should a large number of firms be eventual fected. There is also the risk of setting a
precedent that will carry greater fis r time.

35. It is also apparent that some sect id some businesses within these, are more exposed
to the Chinese market, e ability to manage the associated risk will differ greatly
depending on the oS the’exporting arrangements.

36. Should Ministers wish'to. loy a targeted assistance to businesses, a more efficient
mechanism could be a s@ctor specific support package, cognisant of our international trade
obligations. | noted that some sectors are more readily identifiable than others.
The tourism i ” for example, includes businesses that sell to New Zealanders as well
as tourist, Whi akes it harder to ascertain the degree of impact on an individual operator
(as oppo a arock lobster business selling all of its product to China).

Exe Cr x monetary policy and automatic stabilisers

37. “Should the impact become noticeable at the macroeconomic level, New Zealand's various
alitomatic stabilisers would begin to kick in. Most immediately, the New Zealand dollar would
likely depreciate and interest rates fall offering stimulus to the New Zealand economy. The
NZD has to date only edged slightly lower since the outbreak was announced. Given New
Zealand's high external liabilities and low household savings, any deterioration in global risk
sentiment would likely see the New Zealand dollar fall, even if the New Zealand economy
was no more adversely affected by Coronavirus than our major trading partners. Monetary
policy could also respond, should the New Zealand economy deteriorate.

1738 19-20 In Confidence 7
