22. In Gisborne, a primary industry group, focused on forestry, has been pulled together to
identify those affected and provide advice on financials and how to get help and support for
well-being. An 0800 number has been established for those concerned across primary
industries and tourism. In most other regions Regional Advisory Groups are established to
aid in well-being support alongside Rural Support Trust services.

23. Agencies are mindful of existing constraints on some of these services. For example, the
Rural Support Trusts have limited capacity and are already stretched with adverse events
responses (e.g. Southland floods, drought-like conditions in other regions). At this stage,
government contracts to not extend to the provision of support on things like Coronavirus
impacts on markets.

Operational Assistance

24. Student visas include a date that they must enter New Zealand. To help facilitate,individuals
in this situation, Immigration New Zealand has decided to extend the “first entry before” date
on all student visa holders affected by the travel restrictions. MBIE is proyidingia. separate
briefing on updating advice for affected employers around pay and leave entitlements for
those staff affected by the border changes and/or the isolation requigeMents.MBIE will also
provide advice to the Minister of Immigration in the next week about options for extending the
visas of temporary visa holders in the country who cannot leavefto,prevent the risk of their
becoming unlawful. Unintended extended stays — for example offtodrists — may raise welfare
issues in the medium term.

25. NZTE has established an Advisory Panel for exporters tossupplement the expertise and
support available through NZTE’s Greater China Team.

26. Inland Revenue can assist if businesses have an¥ concerns relating to their tax obligations
and will provide appropriate communication to taxpayers who may be affected.

27. Education agencies are working to éhsuire,the welfare of affected students in New Zealand is
maintained as well as seeking to understand the implications for students who have not been
able to commence study as plannéd. Eduéation agencies will determine the impacts on
provider viability and on the wider'nfarket, along with strategies focusing on recovery and risk
mitigation.

Further Policy options

Current initiatives that,could be extended or scaled up

28. The responses gutlined above are agencies’ initial response to the outbreak. These and
other basélineyaetivities could be extended or scaled up. For example, the Minister of
Tourism is considering two immediate activities (including their associated cost) that could be
deployed to"Soften the impacts on communities and the tourism industry itself from the
impacts ef Coronavirus on tourism expenditure. These are:

. Destination marketing by Tourism New Zealand (international) and Regional Tourism
Organisations (domestic);

. Destination planning and resilience to soften the impact on the visitor economy and
plan for greater resilience to shocks in the future.

Routine adjustments to tax and benefit settings

29. The standard suite of Ministry of Social Development (MSD) financial assistance is available
to individuals and families. This includes ongoing assistance such as Jobseeker Support for
those who no longer have an income. One off payments, such as Special Needs Grants are
also available to help with food, rent and other essential and immediate needs. At this stage

1738 19-20 In Confidence 6
