6. While there remains no change in the regulatory settings for merchandise exports to China,
most primary sectors are experiencing issues with supply chains, delayed payments,
cancelled orders, and cessation of some airfreight services. MSD reports that they are aware
of some employment impacts, particularly in the forestry sector where downsizing and layoffs
are starting to happen.

7. Among services exporters, tourism businesses and export education providers are
particularly affected, given the restrictions placed on borders.

8. Key service exports to China (2019)

Value of exports to % of category sold to China
China ($ million)

9. Chinese tourists spend about $1.7 billion per annum in New Zealand (February is peak
season, with many travelling for Chinese New Year. Many, firm$ usé thi§ period to build up a
cash surplus to operate through the remainder of the year“ Whilé Chinese tourists make up
about 13% of all international visitor expenditure across the calendar year, this ration rises to
18% in February.

10. Chinese students make up the largest proportién ofjnternational students in both the
secondary and tertiary sector. The majority of students Usually arrive in the first three months
of the year. Most international school students have,arrived, but the bulk of the tertiary
students were expected to arrive in coming Weeks.

11. There are currently 27,282 Chinese national$who hold valid student visas. Of this, 11,280
are currently outside New Zealands(asjof 4/2/2020). Among total Chinese visa holders in
each education sector. 23% of totalPTE students, 30% of schooling sector students, 41% of
polytechnic students, and 53% Of university students remain offshore.

Policy responses "NN

12. Government agencies aré already responding in order to contain the economic impact of the
outbreak. SuppOfhoptiofs have so far focused on addressing immediate issues associated
with border cldsures*and trading restrictions. However should the situation escalate, or be
likely to pefSist forma longer period of time, it may be necessary to change or scale up the
policy response. MBIE, Treasury, RBNZ and other agencies are working to provide a more
detailed asSessment of the economic impact.

13° Thé Government has a number of options with respect to how it may wish to respond. We
€onsider it is crucial that any policy response is made in light of the uncertain scale and
duration of the potential economic impact. A response package that could be scaled and
sustained, should a large number of firms eventually be impacted, would be recommended.

14. The spectrum of policy options include:

. Operational support to businesses (many of which have already been activated)
. Adjustment to tax and benefit settings
° Emergency business support and sector specific support packages
° Automatic stabilisers
1738 19-20 In Confidence 4
