38. Beyond financial markets, automatic stabilisers - unemployment support and the tax system
— would also offer some cushion. An increase in those unemployed would increase job
seeker payments, and place downward pressure on the Crown operating balance.

Fiscal stimulus

39. Should economic deterioration become especially severe, there is of course the option of
employing a broad fiscal stimulus. It can be challenging to ensure such stimulus is delivered
quickly enough. However, the boost to consumer and business confidence from committed
future fiscal spending could be effective in helping offset any economic disruption from
Coronavirus. Indeed, the recently announced $12 billion infrastructure package will be having
a positive influence on business sentiment, particularly in the construction sector.

40. Given debt considerations within the context of the current Budget process, Treasury will
provide advice should there be a need to look more closely into additional fiscaStimulus.

International Developments )

41. MFAT is seeking reporting from its posts on any actions other countries tay be considering
to respond to the economic effects of novel coronavirus. The Coronavirus has already
destabilised global markets and value chains, especially in the Asia-Pacific region. For
example, Korean automotive giant Hyundai says it cannot Prodtice yehicles because
Chinese subsidiaries have stopped producing componenteparts, However, there is a
consensus amongst policy makers and analysts that it is sfilltoo early to assess the long-
term global economic impacts of the Coronavirus.

42. thas been widely reported in public media that‘Ghina has injected stimulus of around $200
billion into its economy and Chinese provincial governments have announced emergency
unemployment and tax relief measures in response to the outbreak.

43. Our post in Canberra has reported that'the Australian Treasury is currently modelling the
economic impacts of the virus butgio decisionfias been made on economic support
measures. Many key sectors ofgtheAustralian economy are dependent on the Chinese
market, especially tourism, international education, energy and minerals. We would expect
other governments to considePannouncing economic policy responses if it becomes
apparent that extendedjpressure on economies is in prospect (e.g. beyond the current
quarter/half year), omifethe\yirus reaches a pandemic scale in other key economies.

Next Steps

44. Governmént'agencies across the system are monitoring the economic impact of the
Coronavitus outbreak on New Zealand, and will update you and other Ministers as
inforMation becomes available. We will also provide advice on how best policy should
respondvas the situation evolves.

1738 19-20 In Confidence 8
