MINISTRY OF
HEALTH
MANATU HAUORA
Appendix 4: Border restrictions imposed by countries
Source: International SOS - updated 11 February 2020
A total of 72 countries have temporary border measures, such as:
¢  self-quarantining on arrival, usually for 14 days
© — screening on arrival and subsequent quarantining if needed
* mandatory quarantining on arrival for travellers from Hubei or all of Mainland China
* presenting a medical certificate on arrival
* cancelling visa-on-arrival services
* restricting travellers from Hubei province (except nationals)
* restricting travellers from Mainland China (except nationals)
* restricting travellers from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan (except nationals)
* restricting travellers from any location with a case of COVID-19 (except nationals)
* closing of land borders to Chinese nationals or travellers from China.
The following countries and territories have put in place temporary border measures broadly equivalent to
New Zealand:
American Samoa (US), Antigua and Barbadu, Australia, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belize, Cook Islands, El
Salvador, Fiji, Gabon, Grenada, Guatemala, Hong Kong (China), India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kiribati, Kosovo, Kuwait, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia, Mongolia,
Myanmar, Niue, North Korea, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Samoa, Seychelles, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Taiwan (China), Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, the United States of America, Vanuatu,
Vietnam.
The table below shows border measures in place for key reference countries, as at 12pm 13 February 2020.
Australia Border and transit closed to passengers who have transited through or
have been in China on or after 1 February 2020.
Exceptions: Does not apply to airline crew. Does not apply to
nationals/residents of Australia. They will be required to self-isolate for a
period of 14 days from their arrival into Australia.
vnted Kegdom
United States of America Border closed to passengers who have been in China in the past 14 days.
Exceptions: Does not apply to nationals/residents of the USA. Passengers
who have been in China in the past 14 days must arrive at one of the
following airports: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit, Honolulu, Los Angeles,
New York, San Francisco, Seattle or Washington.
Health Report: 20200201
