NIN elis
ely valued
Appendix 5: Current activity and potential options
Is 9(2)(F)(iv)
~~
Tourism Reduced visitor numbers in peak season, China and ¢ Visitor Sector Emergency Advisory Group sharing
es ee ee information, key messages and facilitating
mets 9- communications between the Ministry of Health (MoH),
Chinese visitor expenditure in February 2019 was $264 INZ, industry, RTOs, and visitors.
million e MBIE is developing dashboard for near-realtime data on
Auckland, Queenstown, Rotorua are most exposed attivals and MisaINZeUA epnllestion fates by county
destinatians e Working with industry to develop a suite of scenarios to
inform economic impact.
Struggling businesses are able to revise provisional tax | Inland Revenue’s BAU tax relief is available to struggling
payments, sector requires further information to clarify | businesses.
what support / relief is available from Inland Revenue. |» TNZ re-deploying uncommitted funds to boost marketing
in alternate markets ($3m) and partnering with
commercial operators.
Education The main affected segment of education exports is the |* Universities and other providers have strong
PAHS TOr GERHOrS HEINER Wo Chis HORE accommodation and welfare safeguards in place for in-
e Universities are reorienting programmes to online
delivery for the first semester where possible, so that
students can then continue in New Zealand
e The government has increased flexibility in visa validity,
reducing the number of affected students required to
apply for a further visa or pay a fee, and agreed to
refund withdrawn visa applications currently in the
system.
e Agencies and ministers are considering relationship-
building visits to China.
Primary The most immediate impacts being felt by New « The government has agreed to allow a limited release
industries Zealand primary sector are cancelled orders, supply (subject to biosecurity concerns) of live rock lobster
gs ‘ back into the wild to mitigate the impact of order
chain disruptions, lack of cold storage and slow cancelations.
a ane ihe aie a nee die e Regional Wood Councils are meeting and working with
intenialaraveliesinehonsiinalChina Nasi pati place their members to minimise the effects of the disruption.
to control the spread of the virus. ¢ Monitoring the situation in Gisborne closely and in
More specific impacts include: touch with Tarawhiti Community Trust
e The outbreak has significantly impacted demand = Exporter Regulatory aMSOny) BeiNice (ERAS) advice
for rock lobsters. China is the leading export including options for exporters to divert product to
market for live rock lobster, accounting for 99% of other markets and the applicable market BOCES:
all exports and this is a peak time for exports. The requirements. The ERAS helpline provides information
NZ Rock Lobster Industry Council has estimated on Coronavirus trade impacts, and enquiry contact
the economic impact in foregone revenue is $63 Points within MPI.
million. e Encouraging individuals and small businesses to
engage early with accountants and other advisers, and
Health Report: 20200201
