Rin saoi
ie euvew el
-MANATUTHAUORA
New Zealand in order to undertake self-isolation or managed isolation before onward
travel to their home countries provided the following conditions are met:
a. Any public health impacts in New Zealand, the Realm, and the wider Pacific Region
can be managed;
b. There are resources available to effectively isolate, including a safe and appropriate
location for the 14-day period; and
c. They hold a valid visa to travel.

26. Immigration New Zealand can implement these individual, case-by-case, exemptions
from the ban at the border, but it is only feasible at very small numbers. It will need to
involve MFAT facilitation for government-to-government requests. This is possible
within the parameters of the current border restrictions at the margins and only where
the threat to public health is deemed to be manageable (ie with appropriate self-
isolation arrangements in place). These manual exceptions also mean diverting
immigration officers from processing visas and will impact on processing times.

Expanding exemptions to a larger scale is not currently operationally viable

27. Current visa holders in China who have previously been in New Zealand, that are
caught by the restrictions, total over 12,000 people across student, work and family visa
classes. There are further visa holders who have not yet travelled to New Zealand who
are also caught by the ban. An estimate of the total number affected by the ban is not
yet available as it would also include non-Chinese nationals who happen to be in or
have been in China recently.

28. Expanding exemptions on a large scale eg to a whole visa class (such as students)
would require the ability to enforce self-isolation and have suitable organised self-
isolation options available, as well as a systems change to border processing and
potentially significant operational impacts.

29. A large-scale exemption in immigration systems would be difficult to implement and
require a system change (taking two to three weeks). A manual work around to identify
particular visa holders would only be feasible at very small numbers.

30. There are also no suitable large-scale self-isolation facilities available currently, and no
powers are available to enforce isolation at this stage. Unless that changes,
implementing large-scale exemptions would increase the threat to public.

31. A voluntary self-isolation regime would not be sufficient to satisfy the assurances
needed around isolation requirements. Even if we sought agreement to managed
isolation prior to entry or boarding, capacity will likely be a constraint and the suitable
size facilities - available 7 be _ for New Zealanders. 7

32. In the interim, education agencies will focus on ensuring that education providers are
ready to work with government agencies to manage entry of a cohort of international
student visa holders into self-isolation, if and when that is safe and viable from a public
health perspective.

Health Report: 20200201 13
