Annex 1: Programme Map — Covid response activities to facilitate Distance Learning Phase 2 (support for schools opening 15 April 2020)
[Work-stream =| End of week 30 march Week beginning 6 April Week beginning 15 April
Survey Survey to all schools and kura to better understand Survey/data collection form to identify learners who
current capability and capacity to provide would require a device, or hard pack to be delivered on
online/distance learning. 16 April.
Broadcast English medium Television English medium Television All
Stand up of Broadcast e Scope and approval to launch Home school TV. e Contract signed with TVNZ e GoLive
Geceor oneal ik ea oF e Communication to launch e POST LAUNCH - continued development and production.
daily content © Content plans finalised to deliver 6.5 hrs of education
Aligned to the National content to learners relevant to age groups (e.g. EL
Curriculum and the needs of play’ sessions) — staggered approach
all English Medium, reo Maori © Content production/filming starts.
learners and Maori medium
Maori Television Maori Television
e Scope of content development in progress. Note: | e Contract signed with Maori TV
One hour of Maori language content is being @ :Gomniunization io faunehi finalised
made available for language learners.
e Content development begins
Agreements in place with key whanau to record specific
content.
Online Learning Support Learningfromhome.govt.nz Learningfromhome.govt.nz Learningfromhome.govt.nz
Development, collation, and e Launch website: learningfromhome.govt.nz—with | e Load of priority learning resources from Te Kura, e Identify, collate and final load of content.
upload of website resources load for priority content and advice. leaders and teacher
sesorniey Warrieee, senior e Identify, collate and final load of content.
teachers and parents
e  learningfromhome.govt.nz
Collation and launch of Kite | Ki te Ao Marama Ki te Ao Marama Ki te Ao Marama
Ao Marama on Kauwhata a - ta - . se - A .
= e Launch and load for priority content and advice. e Additional content is being developed and quality e Additional content is being developed and quality assured for
Reo to support whanau, id for load’ to the Sit lead'to this Sit
akonga and kaiako te assured for load to the site. load to the site.
progress learning at home Source and draft exemplars of ‘best practice’ puorsh ea of best een distance ho
ikauwhatsreogovinz : oT : " learning in early learning services on Learningfromhome
° 7 - e For distance learning in early learning services for | and Ki te Ao Marama.
publication on Learningfromhome and Ki te Ao
Marama.
Student support Studylt forums
e to be reopened by 15 April and updates prioritised to provide
students with online NCEA tutoring.
7
