BUDGET SENSITIVE
i. where the social service is the only way for people accessing food and
other goods they need to survive (e.g. money management (but not
budget advice), food banks, and other delivery of essential goods).

ii. asocial service that provides and supports a place for someone to live
(e.g. supported accommodation, Housing First, care residences, bail
hostels, night shelters, family homes, remand homes, foster carers of
children in state care, resettlement services for recent migrants and
refugees).

iii. | asocial service that supports disabled people to maintain critical
wellbeing (e.g. disability services for those with high needs or very high
needs, excluding disability employment services).

iv. crisis support for people who are unsafe (e.g. Funded helplines, refuges
and family violence services, foster care support services, sexual
violence crisis services).

15. |Community groups outside of those who we currently contract with also
provide important services to at risk people. This can include developing local
plans to provide food and supplies for people not able to access these,
mobilising volunteer groups or disseminating information to communities
where there are language barriers.

16. Ensuring these essential services continue throughout the period in which the
Alert Level 4 is in operation, with maximum hygiene protocols in place for
essential workers, will be critical to maintain the resilience of communities and
individuals.

$16 million to bolster existing social sector services delivered by NGO partners

17. | MSD’s experience of the GFC illustrated that during an economic downturn,
there are increased demands on social sector services. During the GFC
(between 2009 and 2012), the Government paid out $78.9 million to providers
that had been impacted by the increased demand on services and the
reduction in philanthropic funding.

18 s 9(2)((iv)

19. Ea

| consider additional funding is
needed to meet immediate additional demand and to enable providers to
adapt their services to adhere to the Government's public health guidance on

Alert Level 4.

20. | therefore propose that Cabinet agrees to $16 million to bolster existing social
services that face increases in demand due to COVID-19. In order to manage
the risk that this short-term funding creates ongoing funding expectations,
communications with our partners will emphasise that this funding is for

a
