BUDGET SENSITIVE
respect to make their own decisions, in line with the New Zealand Disability
Strategy 2016-2026.

Consultation

64. MoH, the Ministry of Justice, Oranga Tamariki, the Department of Prime
Minister and Cabinet and the Treasury have been consulted on this paper.

Communications

65. We propose to co-ordinate with the Prime Minister's Office in making
announcements about the decisions taken as a result of this paper.

Proactive release

66. This Cabinet paper will be proactively released, with redactions made
consistent with the Official Information Act.

Recommendations

The Minister for Social Development recommends that Cabinet:

As Note that the Ministry of Social Development and Oranga Tamariki have
publicly released guidance on what is an essential social service for the
purpose of our COVID-19 response Alert Level 4 (see paragraph 13)

2: Note that non-government organisations and communities provide essential
services that will need to continue now the Government has moved to COVID-
19 Alert Level 4

3. _Note that §90™

this funding will not
meet immediate additional demand and enable providers to adapt their
services to adhere to the Government’s guidance on Alert Level 4

4. Agree to $16 million to ensure that essential social sector services continue to
operate and can meet increased demand during Alert Level 4

5. Agree to $6 million to support disability sector providers to change how they
deliver essential services during COVID-19 Alert Level 4

6. Agree to $4.8 million to provide community grants or fund innovative
communhity-led solutions to support local resilience

7. Note that Ministry of Social Development officials will be working to ensure
that any services funded are taking steps to ensure that maximum hygiene
protocols are in place for essential workers

8. Note that due to the unprecedented nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty
around its impacts over the coming months it is prudent to create a flexible
funding mechanism to support communities

10
