BUDGET SENSITIVE
Annex 2: Community Grants — key design features

e Grants will contribute to immediate one-off requests that detail how they will
contribute to community wellbeing and support preparedness and awareness
activities in relation to the potential impact of COVID -19.

e They will be made available to any community-based groups or individuals
who support community wellbeing during the period of Alert Level 4. An
overview summary of the grant application is in the table below and further
discussion follows.

Table: Summary of the grant application process

Application 1. An applicant on behalf of a community-based group will apply via email to a
centralised inbox. Applications will need to provide a simple explanation of
how they will use the grant to contribute to the communities’ well-being.

2. If applicants have a charities number they will be asked to provide it to
MSD. Where this is not possible MSD will undertake normal due diligence .
3. Grants will be:
* up toa maximum of $5000; OR
anything over the maximum will be considered by exception but will
require further documentation.
Processing of 4. Officials will check that the submission meets the criteria.
the application
5. Should applications be successful, grants will be approved within five
working days.
6. The amounts granted and the groups that have received the grants will be
Post grant published on MSD's website for transparency. At an appropriate time, MSD
publication and Officials would follow up with communities to monitor how funding was
reporting used.

e Officials will review the application to check that it meets the criteria. If so, the
payment will be processed within five working days.

e Groups will not be limited to only being able to apply once however it is
unlikely that MSD would establish reoccurring grants as these are specifically
to manage through extraordinary circumstances and should not create an
expectation of an ongoing funding commitment.

e Some examples of initiatives that could receive grants include:

° supporting community efforts to establish ways of maintaining links
with, and supporting each other in new ways in light of social distancing
and other possible requirements;

° translation services for published information;

° developing local plans to provide food and supplies for people not able
to access these through fear of going out due to self-isolation
concerns;

18
