MINISTRY OF
ShaU Mal
MANATU HAUORA
Hong Kong 91 Infected (& 7 case since 27 | Hong Kong has activated its highest level - Emergency Response - under its Infectious Disease Response Plan. Bahrain, Bangladesh, Taiwan, Iran,

Feb) JHU] iraq, Israel, Marshall Islands, Kuwait,

26 Recovered JHU] Range of measures introduced including closing of schools (recently extended until March 16), strengthening Mauritius, Mongolia, Nauru, Palau,

immigration controls, cancellation of events, reducing scale of non-essential government services including Philippines, Russia, Samoa, Saudi

2 Fatalities JHU] through work from home for civil servants, allocating quarantine facilities, significant allocation of fundin Arabia, Seychelles, St Lucia, Tonga,

g gq g g y g
Vanuatu.
one checks are being ae to pan at serra etpaten clinics me nose nm emergeney ore. ere 4; Officials consider that New Zealand's
with resptratory symptoms wi e given nome testing its to return samp es the next day with results expected In position is materially different from
a further 2-3 days. Strict location enforcement for those in quarantine .
|. ; : . - _. the countries above.
Limited exemptions apply with medical supervision conditions.
Strict location enforcement for those in quarantine. Limited exemptions apply with medical supervision
conditions. 14-day Mandatory quarantine on all people entering Hong Kong from the Mainland.
Thailand AO Infected (No change since Thailand has expanded stricter border screening measures to include all visitors arriving from Nepal, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, French

27 Feb) JHU] Viet Nam and Malaysia (as well as Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Cambodia and China). Polynesia, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Nauru,

22 Recovered [JHU] Borders remain open with flights continuing to arrive at Thai airports from cities across China. Little or no Paraguay, Samoa, UAE.

0 Fatalities JUHU] screening at land borders. Officials consider that New Zealand's
position is materially different from
the countries above.

Japan 214 Infected (&25 cases since The geographic spread of domestic transmissions is broad, with cases confirmed in Hokkaido, the Tokyo Micronesia, Samoa, Kiribati, Tuvalu,

27 Feb) (JHU] Metropolitan area, the Nagoya area, Ishikawa, Kyoto, Nara, Mie, Wakayama, Fukuoka, Kumamoto, and Okinawa. | the Solomon Islands, Comoros, Iraq,

22 Recovered [JHU] The Japanese Ministry of Health advised against raising Japan’s alert level, as the outbreak remains in an “initial Israel, Kuwait.

4 Fatalities UHU] phase”. This means the focus remains on screening overseas arrivals and identifying transmission routes. . Officials consider that New Zealand's

Japan's Health Minister has urged the public to avoid crowds and “non-essential gatherings”. Some gatherings enon Oey different from
have been cancelled. Schools have been asked to close across the country until the end of March. © couniries above.
2
