$f MINISTRY OF
- MANATU HAUORA
Category Two Growth in cases Health System capability / public health containment measures Border restrictions imposed by:
Area
i ici h i i il- fforts t . we
Republic of Korea 1766 Infected (A 505 cases Republic of Korea (ROK) officials have stressed that the Government is taking concerted and a out efforts to Bahrain, El Salvador, Fiji
. 1 respond to the COVID-19 outbreak. The ROK Government has asked other governments to not impose overly
since 27 Feb) JHU] on : . . (Daegu/Cheongdo only), French
restrictive measures for people travelling to and from the ROK. The Government has expressed its expectation to | .
22 Recovered [JHU] be informed in advance of any measures being imposed Polynesia, Iraq, Israel, Japan
¥ gimp ‘ (Daegu/Cheongdo only), Jordan;
- 13 Fatalities JHU] - Screening at airports was underway in ROK before the virus was introduced to a group in Daegu. Since that Kuwait, Nauru, Oman, Paraguay,
event, the number of cases increased rapidly over the past week from 31 cases to 977 cases. Qatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
. . _ . Lo. Seychelles, Singapore
h D .Th .
The government has since focused its resources on containing the spread beyond the group in Daegu. This is (Daegu/Cheongdo only), St Lucia.
across three main areas:
a. Prioritising testing of those considered high risk
b . i lei . id Officials consider that New Zealand's
. Testing all people in Daegu presenting common cold symptoms position is materially different from
c. Individually contacting a list of people believed to have had contact with members of the group in the countries above.
Daegu.
There are currently no formal ROK Government travel controls in place (no cities closed off, no roadside checks,
KTX express trains still operating).
The Mayor of Daegu has requested local residents voluntarily stay inside with people voluntarily staying indoors.
Outside the central area, most small shops have closed, though some larger ones remain open. Some people are
circulating outside, but it is much quieter than usual.
ltaly 655 Infected (A 202 cases since | Italy has reported a rapid increase in cases of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 since 21 February 2020. An initial Bahrain, El Salvadior, Iraq, Jordan,
27 Feb) (JHU] investigation by Italian authorities has found several clusters of cases in different regions of northern Italy. Kuwait, Mauritius, Nauru, Oman,
45 Recovered [JHU] Health authorities in Italy are implementing measures to prevent onward transmission, including closing of Paraguay, Qatar, Samoa, Saudi
17 Fatalities JHU] schools and bars and cancelling of sports events and other mass gatherings in the areas affected. This aligns with Arabia, Seychelles, St Lucia.
the containment strategy currently being implemented globally in an effort to stop the spread of COVID-19. Officials consider that New Zealand's
The majority of cases are located in just three provinces: Lombardy (403), Veneto (111) and Emilia-Romagna position is materially different from
. . the countries above.
(where cases more than tripled overnight from 30 to 97)..
Around half of cases are self-isolated at home, with the majority of the remainder hospitalised and a more
limited number in intensive care.
Singapore 93 Infected (No change since The national disease outbreak response system condition has been raised to orange. Businesses are carrying out | Bahrain, French Polynesia, Iraq, Israel,
27 Feb) JHU] temperature checks. The Ministry of Health has announced that from 18 Feb, Public Health Preparedness Clinics | Kuwait, Nauru, Paraguay, Qatar,
(900 GP clinics) will be activated to provide subsidised treatment, investigation and medication for patients with | Samoa, Saudi Arabia, St Lucia.
62 Recovered [JHU] rat '
0 Fatalities UHU] respiratory symptoms. Officials consider that New Zealand's
Temperature screening for all departing passengers just before departure immigration has been implemented. position is materially different from
Any passenger detected with high temperature will be referred to the airline for follow-up per the airline's the countries above.
handling policy. ;
1 JHU = John Hopkins University tracking dashboard which incorporates WHO/CDC date, available at https://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9eci6
