MINISTRY OF
eb .U ME!
MANATU HAUORA
b. Supported self-isolation (Individuals isolate in shared accommodation facilities
using guidance from Moh)
c. Monitored isolation (Individuals isolate in private residences or shared
accommodation facilities with monitoring from Health Professionals/Healthline)
d. Enforced isolation (individuals isolate in private residences or shared
accommodation facilities following strict quarantine operating procedures)

13. The Technical Advisory Group has advised that people who have travelled from or via
areas in Category One in the last 14 days are required to self-isolate for 14 days.

14. The Technical Advisory Group has advised that people who have travelled from or via
areas listed in Category Two who develop symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of
breath should seek medical advice.

Implementation considerations

15. Current best estimates of the number of passengers travelling direct from the 6
countries are shown in Appendix One. It also includes passengers of that nationality
arriving from any port.

Immigration can implement current travel restriction arrangements for additional countries

16. The existing travel restriction arrangements refuses entry for all passengers that have
been in a place of concern (country or cruise ship) within the past 14 days?.

17. The restrictions are operationalised by two different mechanisms depending on
whether the passenger is traveling directly or indirectly to New Zealand:

a. Direct travel from a listed country to New Zealand uses an automated system

that automatically denies boarding for people who are not exempt.
b. Travel to New Zealand from a port outside the listed country requires the carrier

to ask and the passenger to self-identify if they have been ina listed country in

the last 14 days®. In these cases New Zealand is largely reliant on declarations

from travellers who understand the questions being asked, as they cannot be

reliably verified.

18. These offshore arrangements are backed up by questions at the New Zealand border.
This may capture some people who made an inaccurate declaration, and alert health
officials to the arrival of exempt persons who must self-isolate.

19. Immigration New Zealand can in most cases implement a move of an area from
Category Two to Category One within 24 hours of a decision being taken. Italy would
be expected to take 72 hours to get staff in place to handle the increased number of
cases requiring manual resolution as there are no direct ports.

? New Zealand citizens and residents, immediate family travelling with them, Australian citizens and some other

groups are exempt. ;
° For example, a passenger who has travelled from China to Korea attempting to board a flight from Seoul to
Auckland. If they answer yes the carrier contacts INZ and boarding is likely denied.

2
