MINISTRY OF
HEALTH
MANATU HAUORA

Sub-national travel restrictions (eg a specific city) are less effective and more resource intensive

21, In cases where there are specific cities or areas within a country has been identified (eg
Daegu in South Korea) a restriction could be applied to just the sub-national area.

22. However, in the absence of a specific list of people (as in the case of a ship manifest), a
sub-national restriction would be operationalised by relying on questioning and self-
declaration when boarding‘. This will have a deterrent effect and will identify some
people trying to travel, but is not as secure as an automatic system meaning people are
more likely to get through, and generates more manual confirmation work for INZ and
carriers potentially slowing boarding. It will also require longer to implement (at least
48 hours) due to resourcing considerations.

23. For New Zealand, in most cases port closure works best for entire countries (for
example, only one port in South Korea is a destination for New Zealand.) Froma
practical perspective, MBIE therefore recommends that, if Ministers did consider
moving an area from Category Two to Category One, in line with the decision made for
China, exclusions and therefore declarations relate to travel to or transit via an entire
country (eg South Korea rather than Cheongdo county and Daegu city).

Capacity will soon be available to restrict travel by visa type

24. Public health impacts can be managed if people arriving in New Zealand are able to
self-isolate. However, it is not currently possible to identify at scale potential arrivals
who are less able to self-isolate such as tourists with changing accommodation. INZ is
implementing functionality into its border systems which will enable boarding
directives, and therefore exclusions, to be targeted on a more granular basis.
Specifically, from 9 March INZ will be able to close or open the border at ports to
people on the basis of the temporary visa they hold (eg visitor, essential skills, working
holiday or student visa).

Economic considerations

25. COVID-19 is having an effect on the New Zealand economy already, and it is being felt
in some industries in particular (eg tourism, forestry and international
education). However, the current border restrictions are a net economic benefit to New
Zealand, as long as they remain an effective way to reduce the spread of the disease in
New Zealand.

26. The economic effects of COVID-19 on New Zealand are mainly from other channels —
they relate to country specific closures and shutdowns affecting economic activity

4 A consideration for specific sub-national hot spots, is how the host country is managing internal people flows.

For example, travel to and from Hubei province is restricted by the Chinese government. The current travel

restriction applies to mainland China and does not specify Hubei.

3
