MINISTRY OF
et ewsl
MANATU HAUORA
Our assessment against the high-level review criteria is:
Factors for consideration for border measures review
High-level Factors for consideration Indicate if there has been a Overall comment
considerations NB theceactordnavelnotbeentwetgntediog change in this factor since the
ae last assessment
prioritised
Appropriate guidance documents and management | There is guidance available on the | The overall status of readiness of New
processes available for the health system Ministry of Health website for the | Zealand's health system to respond is
health sector and the general good. The DHBs have been asked to
public. Regular border advisories provide response plans to the Ministry.
he being issued and protocols for The epidemiological criteria for case
techecwucet 0 e N. case definition now includes two categories for
an ng sequent cases in New countries or areas of concern. Category
Zealand have been developed. A One countries which currently include
COVID-19 Strategic R Pl y
Readiness of New . - k a a Shoo, ‘0 | mainland China and Iran require travellers
‘ 's currently being developed. to self-isolate for 14 days. Category Two
Zealand's health y' gory
system to respond =| scenario planning for potential impact on New There has been no change. countries are countries of areas with
to cases and/or Zealand's health system suspected or confirmed sustained
outbreak transmission. These countries include
Current response aims (e.g. stage of NZIPAP) No Indicative health sector alert Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Republic of
code has been issued. NZ Korea, Singapore and Thailand. People
preparedness measures are who have travelled from or via countries
currently being guided by the listed in category two who develop
‘Keep it Out” phases of the NZIPP. symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of
breath should seek medical advice.
This applies despite the . . . .
confirmation of one case in New The Ministry's Chief Medical Officer has
Zealand engaged widely with clinical colleagues in
