MINISTRY OF:
HEALTH
MANATU HAUORA

21. The Director-General recommends an Epidemic Notice be given as the situation continues
to change rapidly and New Zealand cannot rule out community transmission (for more
detail, see paragraphs 27-29).

22. An Epidemic Notice must be published in the Gazette.

What an Epidemic Notice involves, and the flexibility it provides

23. Giving an Epidemic Notice triggers a number of specific effects in three pieces of
legislation.

a. Health Act 1956
b. Corrections Act 2004
c. Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006

24, These are automatic (i.e self-executing) changes designed to help agencies respond in an
epidemic, and are listed in more detail in Appendix 2.

25. Perhaps more significant in the current, rapidly evolving context, giving an Epidemic
Notice provides a platform to activate additional changes, or modify existing legislation as
the situation around COVID-19 continues. These are set out in paragraphs 38-41.

Certain tests must be met

26. An Epidemic Notice can only be given if the Prime Minister is satisfied the effects of
COVID-19 are likely to disrupt, or continue to disrupt essential government and business
activity significantly.

27, Significant disruption has already been experienced in New Zealand to government and
business activity at levels 1 and 2 of the COVID-19 Alert framework.

28, Disruption to government activity includes: pressures on the health system (including the
Ministry of Health, as well as DHBs and PHUs to prepare for and manage cases and
containment), as well as flow on pressures to the welfare, immigration, police and border
control eco-systems as agencies respond to the changing COVID-19 environment.

29. Disruption to business activity has already been significant. Disruptions include reduced
demand for services (especially tourism, hospitality, transport and other service sectors)
given domestic and international border restrictions, as well as increasing costs associated
with COVID-19 related leave. Compliance pressures on businesses are also increasing, and
are likely to increase further under higher levels of alert.

30. Given the growing risk of community transmission, the Director-General of Health
confirms that COVID-19 is likely to continue to disrupt essential government and business
activity significantly. In particular, social welfare and immigration activities are being
impacted. See the sections below on immigration and welfare for additional information
on the current impact to activities.

Health Report: 202004698
