eI Bee
MANATU HAUORA

Immigration and visas - the benefits of giving an Epidemic Management Notice

48, Once an Epidemic Notice is given, the Prime Minister, in consultation with the Minister of
Immigration can give a further Epidemic Management Notice to activate powers in the
Immigration Act 2009.

49, This would ensure that all current temporary visa holders whose visas are expiring in the
epidemic period (plus 14 days) will have their visas extended for the duration of the
epidemic management notice plus three months.

50. This applies to all people who (a) hold a temporary visa that is valid immediately prior to
the notice being given, and (b) people whose temporary visa is due to expire within 14
days of the end of the Epidemic Notice (i.e. June 2020). The visa holder must also be in
New Zealand.

51. This deemed bulk extension will enable people on valid visas to continue to study or work
(therefore maintaining the continuity of eligibility for their visa), and visitors to remain
lawfully in the country. This extension can be automated (and affected visa holders
informed), removing the need for Immigration New Zealand (INZ) to manually process
individual applications from individuals whose visas are expiring. This will present a major
relief for INZ's now limited processing capacity which can be instead focused on new visa
or essential case-by-case changes to conditions if needed (potentially providing limited
work rights to visitors stranded here who need financial support).

52. The extension will also provide confidence to businesses that existing staff can lawfully
remain in their current roles during the epidemic period, removing the need to recruit a
replacement that may be difficult to find or a distraction from more pressing business
concerns (such as falling demand).

Unintended consequences associated with changing immigration settings

53. The deemed extension applies to all visas expiring during the period, and cannot be
limited to specific visa types or visa holder circumstances. This may mean that some
travellers could choose to stay longer than intended, or some workers may remain in jobs
that may have otherwise been offered to a New Zealander.

54. However, the reality is that foreigners are already becoming stranded in New Zealand due
to a lack of viable flight routes home and retaining a job provides financial support for
those stranded. Officials advise that the benefits of the certainty for visa holders and
businesses, and the significant reduction of visa processing requirements for INZ,
outweigh these concerns.

55. There will be people who, due to COVID-19 related restrictions, are unable to fulfil the
conditions on their visas (e.g. because their work hours need to be reduced). To ensure
visa conditions can continue to be met, MBIE is considering options that can be
progressed by the Minister of Immigration, such as varying the definitions of ‘full time
work’ and ‘full time study’ in instructions for a temporary period. This does not require an
Epidemic Management Notice.

Health Report: 2020046911
