MINISTRY.OF
Seve bad
MANATU SAUORA

Proposal

1. This paper recommends that the Prime Minister give an Epidemic Notice, under the
Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006, and seeks agreement from the Minister of Health.

2. This paper also recommends that the Prime Minister give an Epidemic Management
Notice, and seeks agreement from the Ministers of Social Development and Immigration.

3. The Prime Minister may wish to discuss this with her Cabinet colleagues on 23 March
2020.

Background

4. Giving an Epidemic Notice is a tool to support the Government's response to COVID-19,
and can help ensure the continuity of essential government services in the changing
COVID-19 environment.

5. With confirmed COVID-19 cases in 18 of the 20 District Health Boards, it is critical that
New Zealand acts decisively and rapidly to protect communities both from the virus, and
the disruption caused by Government's activity to respond to it. Government agencies
need to be able to respond effectively, and in an agile way, as the situation continues to
evolve.

6. The Government has chosen to go hard and go early in the response to COVID-19 for
public health reasons. The package of measures introduced since 14 March 2020 have
helped New Zealand take a precautionary approach to managing COVID-19. It has also
had flow-on impacts on other parts of the system (e.g. welfare and immigration systems).

7, This paper recommends the Prime Minister give an Epidemic Notice to strengthen the
government's ability to respond to the effects of COVID-19. An Epidemic Notice triggers a
number of self-executing provisions in other enactments.

8. Once an Epidemic Notice is given, the Prime Minister, with the agreement of the Minister
responsible for the enactment concerned, may give Epidemic Management Notices.
Epidemic Management Notices trigger a greater number of self-executing provisions in
other enactments. .

9. The paper also recommends that an Epidemic Management Notice be given to ensure the
continuity of social security and immigration services in the COVID-19 context.

10. If given by the Prime Minister, an Epidemic Notice and Epidemic Management Notice
would be published in the Gazette on Tuesday 24 March 2020. The Epidemic Notice would
be presented in Parliament as soon as possible.

11. in the coming weeks, Ministers and their departments, e.g. Department of Internal Affairs
are likely to seek $15 orders to modify legislation. Once an Epidemic Notice has been
given, this can be done on Ministers recommendation to the Governor General (in
consultation with Cabinet colleagues). Depending on the volume of requests, these may
need to be streamlined and triaged.

Health Report: 202004696
