MINISTRY. OF
igeuav ous!
MANATU HAUORA

i. reinstate cancelled benefits;

ili. grant benefits to or reinstate the benefits for, people who are subject to non-
entitlement periods;

iv. cause benefits to be paid at a rate not higher than the maximum rate but higher
than a lower rate to which people would otherwise be entitled (being a lower
rate because of a reduction, variation, suspension, or direct deduction, or
because of a sanction, penalty, or non-entitlement period, imposed on a spouse
or partner);

v. refrain from exercising a power, or from meeting a requirement in this Act, to
cancel, suspend, or vary benefits or payments of benefits, in circumstances
where the holders satisfy the normal criteria for, or the requirement in this Act
applies and requires, cancellation, suspension, or variation of benefits or
payments.

61. Ss64 and 229 apply to the period in which an Epidemic Management Notice remains in
force, and a period after the notice expires that the Minister of Social Development thinks
reasonable in the circumstances.

Modification Orders

62. No Modification Orders are being sought at this time. However, some modifications will
be required to enable councils’ decision-making processes to function effectively and this
advice is expected in the coming week.

63. Further Modification Orders are likely to be required should the epidemic persist for a
prolonged time.

Links with other advice

Moving through COVID-79 Alert levels

64. CVD will receive a paper on 25 March 2020 that provides advice on whether and how to
move from a Level 2 to either Level 3 or Level 4 in response to COVID-19.

65. That advice sets out a package of measures to move New Zealand to Level 3, and the legal
authority required to do so.

66. Many of the measures discussed in that paper can be enacted using the authority of the
Minister of Health under the Health Act (a) as it stands, or (b) under the augmented
powers associated with issuing an Epidemic Notice.

System perspective - a state of emergency

67. Officials have tested whether, from a legal perspective, it would be preferable to bypass
the Epidemic Notice process and move straight to declaring a state of emergency under
the CDEM Act.

Health Report: 2020046913
