MINISTRY OF
lolv.wela es
MANATU TAUORA

An Epidemic Notice would also result in effects to the health system

31. An Epidemic Notice will activate the ‘Activation - Code Red’ phase of the National Health
Sector Emergency Plan, 2015. Under this phase, DHBs are required to activate Coordinated
Incident Management Response Structures (CIMS) via four regional coordination teams.

32. DHBs are required to act as a single point of contact for the Ministry of Health on behalf
of hospital, primary care, and community-based contracted services. Maintenance of core
clinical capacity and prioritisation of services are to be managed as per individual DHB
emergency response protocols and the Influenza Pandemic Plan, 2017. Note these
activations are not legislative, they flow from the design of the Ministry of Health’s
epidemic plan.

33. An Epidemic Notice will devolve special powers to Medical Officers of Health under s71 of
the Health Act without need for prior approval of the Minister of Health. This includes the
ability to authorise temporary use of any site for a special hospital or place of isolation.

34. The special powers under s70 of the Health Act are already available to all Medical Officers
of Health, under the authorisation of the Minister of Health (but in practice are being
exercised by the Ministry of Health - rather than DHB - employees). Reauthorisations will
no longer be required during the period of an Epidemic Notice.

The Epidemic Notice should be given for the whole of New Zealand, for three months

35, individual modification orders considered in relation to the Epidemic Notice may apply to
parts or the whole of New Zealand as required for their individual application.

36. The imperatives noted in this paper in regards to immigration and welfare requirements
may apply to individuals within any part of New Zealand. It is therefore recommended that
the Epidemic Notice be issued for the whole of New Zealand.

37. Epidemic Notices are renewable, and the Director-General of Health is required to keep
the situation under review. If no longer required it must be promptly revoked.

Epidemic Preparedness Act - Further changes and modifications available

38. Once an Epidemic Notice has been given, Epidemic Management Notices - activating a
number of immediate powers and modifications - can be given by the Prime Minister, with
the agreement of the Minister responsible for the relevant legislation. in order to give such
a Notice the Prime Minister must be satisfied that the effects of COVID-19 make it, or are
likely to make it, reasonably necessary for her to do so.

39. In addition, Modification Orders - lifting some legislative requirements and restrictions can
be made by Ministers making a recommendation to the Governor General in consultation
with Cabinet to make an Order in Council. In order to recommend such an Order, the
Minister responsible for the enactment must be satisfied that the effects of COVID-19
make it, or are likely to make it, impossible or impracticable to comply with a requirement
or restriction. This is a high bar — but appropriately so, given that the Order in Council

Health Report: 202004699
