MINISTRY OF
ist yAU BU S|
MANATU HAUORA

Legislative provisions in the current context

12. On 11 March 2020, COVID-19 was declared a notifiable infectious disease, and a
quarantinable disease under the Health Act 1956. This decision has enabled a range of
broad powers under the Health Act 1956. These are already being used to respond to
COVID-19.

13. From a public health perspective, the current powers under the Health Act 1956 are
deemed broadly appropriate - at this time.

14, However, from a whole-of-government perspective, some changes to current
requirements in the law are highly likely to be needed to allow agencies to respond to the
changing environment. While it is possible to create new legislation to allow agencies to
respond, this is time-consuming and resource-intensive.

In a pandemic response, the Government should use legislative provisions in a way that is

proportionate and appropriate to the emerging pandemic

15. The Epidemic Preparedness Act has additional powers to facilitate the management of
epidemics or quarantinable diseases.

16, Officials advise that the Epidemic Preparedness Act provides an effective platform to
manage some of the direct and flow-on implications of COVID-19.

17. This Act has been designed to ensure that there is adequate statutory power for:

a. government agencies to prevent and respond to epidemics in New Zealand

b. certain activities to continue during an epidemic, and

c. the relaxation of some statutory requirements that might not be able to be fully
complied with during an epidemic.

18. Using the process as set out under Epidemic Preparedness Act allows certain modifications
to be activated immediately, and provides a platform for further modifications to be
considered as the context around COVID-19 evolves.

Giving an Epidemic Notice - More Context

Using the Epidemic Preparedness Act

19. To unlock the process under the Epidemic Preparedness Act, the Prime Minister must first
give an Epidemic Notice.

20. This decision is for the Prime Minister, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, and
on the recommendation from the Director-General of Health. This decision can be taken
once she is satisfied that the effects of an outbreak are likely to significantly disrupt or
continue to disrupt essential government and business activity in New Zealand.

Health Report: 202004697
