PIR R AA el Z

Ieee WEE gE

MANATU ITAUORA
would modify legislation enacted by Parliament. Modification Orders are subject to
disallowance by Parliament.

40. This paper is proposing an Epidemic Management Notice to help the Ministry of Business,
Innovation and Employment, and the Ministry of Social Development, respond to
difficulties with emergency benefits, temporary visas expiring and difficulties detaining
deportees, where there is limited ability to leave New Zealand, as set out below. The full
range of powers that can be activated under Epidemic Management Notices (e.g changes
to courts and prisons) are not being sought at this time.

41. No Modification Orders are not being sought in this paper, but some are likely to be
sought in future advice (for example from the Department of Internal Affairs).

Specific Epidemic Management Notices being sought in this paper

42. Epidemic Management Notices can be given if “the effects of the outbreak [of COVID-19]
make it, or are likely to make it, reasonably necessary to do so”.

43. The sub-sections below set out two challenges officials wish to resolve through Epidemic
Management Notices.

Immigration and visas - current challenges

44, Travel restrictions in New Zealand and globally mean there are approximately 85,000
people in New Zealand on temporary visas (a) whose visas are due to expire prior to 31
July 2020 and (b) who may be unable to travel to their country of origin’. This means that
unless they apply for a new visa, they will be in New Zealand unlawfully at the expiration
of their visa.

45. The closure of all three of the MBIE’s offshore visa processing centres has severely
restricted New Zealand's visa processing capacity. This means that MBIE's domestic
processing centres are at capacity and are unable to process visa extensions at the volume
and speed required.

46. MBIE’s domestic visa processing capacity will be further impacted if community
transmission increases in New Zealand and if New Zealand moves to alert Level 3.

47. This is because privacy concerns and system limitations mean it is very difficult to process
visas through remote working arrangements. As staff are increasingly required to self-
isolate due to exposure to COVID-19, or work from home due to school closures, existing
visa processing capacity will be further reduced.

‘Some of these individuals may be intending to re-apply for visas and remain in New Zealand, while others

would have been expecting to leave New Zealand at the expiry of their visa.

Health Report: 2020046910
