SENSITIVE
2. Three possible trajectories
Three possible trajectories for New Zealand
500
_—— Minimal action
(UK track)
Number of
=o Remain at current
—— settings [Level 1]
(Australia track)
Increase measures ~
——— move to Level 2
‘100 2104 ee Seems
0
sor 20 Mord27 ‘ons pono doar Wettssice cose
New Zealand has a stark choice. Iran and Italy show dramatically what happens when action is taken
too late. Their health systems are overwhelmed which is leading to alarming case fatality rates. The
UK appears to be following Italy’s trajectory with a two-week lag. The UK only began responding
with significant public health measures after the exponential growth in cases occurred. Following the
UK may be Australia in 8-10 days. Without further action, New Zealand may follow the path of
Australia, where community transmission is occurring in New South Wales. New Zealand needs to
act decisively to increase containment measures if we want to stay on the trajectories of Singapore
and Taiwan, notwithstanding cultural differences. As an island nation this is feasible.
Attached are charts which provide more granular data points comparing countries from the date of
their first cases.
3. Interventions
The attached COVID-19 alert levels framework sets out groups of interventions. These increase in
intensity, ie they impose increasing levels of restriction on the movement and interaction of people.
Evidence from public health shows that we need a suite of interventions applied together if we are
to contain COVID-19. Each alert level therefore contains an integrated set of measures which builds
on the actions in the level below.
The framework sets out four alert levels, which are triggered depending on the risk and spread of
COVID-19.
These alert levels can be applied to towns, cities, TLAs, regions or the whole country. For instance,
Dunedin could be at Level 4, while the rest of the country is at Level 2. In a worst-case scenario, the
whole country would be set at Level 4 for several months. It would be very difficult to sustain nation-
wide Level 4 for an extended period.
At present, the whole of New Zealand is at Level 1, but we have already applied parts of Level 2,
namely maximum border restrictions and tightening of restrictions on mass gatherings. We
2
