IN-CONFIDENCE
Other more technical changes recommended by officials are summarised at the end of
this report.
Context — why urgent change is needed to the current scheme
The current wage subsidy and leave payment schemes were designed to operate in an
environment where the majority of businesses were still trading. The move to alert level
four has changed those dynamics. The majority (if not all) of New Zealand firms and
workers are now affected by the shutdown and many of those firms will be in a similar
position in terms of supporting workers who are unable to work as they usually woul
Officials recommend that the two existing schemes be consolidated into one i
scheme with some urgency for a number of reasons:

e Avoiding double dipping between the COVID-19 leave scheme ai al
subsidy scheme: The COVID-19 leave payment was csiaticted athe when
only a handful of people were expected to have to avoid wot isolate.

TI y we are proposing
combining the two schemes into one.

e Avoiding people moving onto benefit tor “If no action is taken, a very
large number of workers could be made redundant in the coming days. If this
occurs, there could be significant delays in getting all applicants onto benefit.
These delays could be week‘ jonths. MSD is currently processing
benefit applications at 500 . 2,500 new applications have been received
in recent days. If unemplo; increases to 10% in coming weeks, then
approximately 160,000 people could seek support through the benefit
system. The modifi subsidy scheme would avoid people transferring to
benefit, ensur remain connected to work and that those businesses
can restart rapidly afterstage four guidelines are lifted.

e Providing certain jout connection to jobs and income levels while
businesg€ wn: The existing wage subsidy scheme provides limited
certain’ o income levels for employees whose hours may be reduced,
inelading .orZero, during the shutdown. The modified scheme requires that the

bsidy ate be passed on in full where hours worked reduce below the
Ge Cable rate and provides a subsidy for wages that can be paid above that
level where businesses require that support because of COVID.

ring workers are not paid sub-minimum wage
We understand Ministers are concerned that some employees would be receiving less
than minimum wage through this wage subsidy scheme. The key principle for
Government support through this wage subsidy is that employees should get paid
what they are worth for what they work (i.e. for each hour worked, employees would
get paid their normal wage).
Treasury:4258826v1 IN-CONFIDENCE 2
