Current Health and Immigration powers are insufficient if cruise

vessels enter New Zealand waters and have suspected COVID-19 on

board ; ne

1. Travellers who enter New Zealand by air and who are not citizens must apply for entry
permission at the border. Residence class visa holders must be granted entry
permission"! but temporary visa holders and applicants (including Australian citizens and
permanent residents)” can be refused entry.

2. Travellers who arrive in New Zealand on a cruise vessel are however deemed to,huld a
visa and entry permission upon their first entry to a harbour. This means that they arejpot
required to apply for a visa and entry permission, and cannot legally be refused entryy and
there is no ability under immigration legislation to prevent them from disembarking. Once
they have disembarked they cannot be easily removed from New Zealand: theyCould be
made liable for deportation but would have 28 days to appeal.

3. At present COVID-19 is a notifiable infectious disease. A cruise Vessehwhich entered New
Zealand waters which had suspected cases on board would be: managed under the
applicable Health powers, which for notifiable diseases are ¢ongent-based (people can be
asked to self-isolate but cannot be forced to, for example)y

4. The Minister of Health is considering changing the status of COVID-19 from a notifiable
infectious disease to a quarantinable disease. gThis would/give health officials stronger
tools to reduce the risk of transmission of thé disease to the New Zealand community,
which could be backed up by Police enforcement if necessary. It would enable all people
in a place or on a vessel, such as a cruise ship, fbe managed irrespective of the
immigration status of those people, coveritg them both while on the ship and after
disembarkation.

Changes to the Visa Regulations would improve the ability to manage cruise travellers who are

not New Zealanders

5. Officials recommend a’complementary rapid change to immigration regulations to enable
cruise passengers aNd?créw, who are not New Zealand citizens or residents, to be
appropriately managed\in terms of their visa status during and after a quarantine period.

6. This change wouldoverride the current deemed status of non-New Zealand cruise
Passengers and erewWs It would also mean their presence was captured in immigration IT
systems. _|t wglld also address the issue that, as those visas expire on the earlier of 28
days orwheh, thé ship leaves New Zealand, people who need to remain for longer (for
example, begause they are being treated in hospital) may inadvertently become
joverstayers.

7 Jie proposals would see a change to the Visa Regulations such that cruise passengers
and crew would be required to apply for entry permission and a visa on arrival at a port
where part of the port (such as a wharf) was designated as an Immigration Control Area
(ICA). This designation would be temporary, to not impede the ongoing commercial
operation of the port. Applications for entry permission and visas would be made by an
arrival card, as they are in the air channel.

"! unless their resident visa was granted offshore and this is their first entry to New Zealand.

"1 who travel visa waiver to New Zealand and apply for a new resident visa on each arrival, so do not hold

a resident class visa while travelling unless they have separately applied for and been granted a

permanent resident visa.
