8. The logistics of efficiently processing visas for several thousand people are being
developed. It may be possible to use the ship’s manifest to rapidly create the visa records
in INZ systems, although the legal ramifications of this are beina worked through.

National security or defence

9. Officials also recommend amending the Visa Regulations to clarify that suspending a
cruise passenger or crew member's visa waiver status before they travel to New Zealand
invalidates their Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). This means both that they have no
legal basis to travel to New Zealand and that, if they still manage to travel here, they
cannot be deemed to hold a visa and entry permission on arrival. This would apply
whether the person arrived in an ICA or not.

A small change to the Information Regulations would be prudent

10. The immigration (Carriers’ Information Obligations) Amendment Regulations2020 enable
the Chief Executive of the Ministry to require a carrier, and a person int Charge of a
commercial craft, to request specified information from intending travellérs and to advise
Immigration New Zealand of certain responses. This facility is automatically repealed on
30 April 2020. Officials consider that it would be prudent to extend (that date to 30
September 2020 at this stage.

11. The requirement on carriers can be withdrawn at any time Prior to the Regulation being
repealed, through a notification by the Chief Executivé of the Ministry.

12. Finally, officials recommend that, if you agreé’to progre8sthese changes, you seek a
waiver of the 28-day rule to enable them to be,broUghPinto effect as soon as practicable.

Nextsteps . ee

13. Officials are available to discuss this Paper 0 Monday 9 August. You could consider
mentioning the proposals at Cabinet later that day.

14. If you agree, officials will prepare @Paper for consideration by Ministers with Power to Act
on Thursday 12 March. «[hatepaper would include the policy proposals and invite you to
issue drafting instructiéns ‘te PCO.

15. Cabinet and Exedlitive Cotincil could then consider the legislation paper and amendment
regulations on.Monday/16 March 2020, and they could be gazetted and come into force on
Tuesday 17(Mareh 2020.

16. Officials/haVe ‘not yet discussed these proposals with PCO. It may be prudent for you to
seekyagreement from the Attorney-General for drafting the amendment regulations in
advance 6fthe policy decisions. Officials will be able to advise you about this early next
week:
