Brief: B20-0091

38. 8 9(2)@)Gi)
supports the carry forward of up to 10% uncaught rock lobster ACE in CRA 2
and CRA 4-9 for one year only. It is satisfied that this option would not have any
negative impacts on the sustainability or overall abundance of the rock lobster
fishery. It supports the position that the up to 10% carry forward should not be
allowed for stocks where there are sustainability concerns and the Total
Allowable Commercial Catch (TACC) is proposed to be reduced.

39. s9(2)@)Gi)

all support up to a 10% carry forward
as the best of the three options presented. This is supported on the condition
that it is a one off carry forward at this time. An ongoing 10% carry forward
should only be considered subject to further information and fisheries’
sustainability assessments.

40. The NZ RLIC supports Option B along with an urgent amendment to the
Fisheries Act 1996 to provide a new power for the Minister of Fisheries, on a
case by case basis, to authorise the carry forward of more than 10% of
uncaught rock lobster ACE in specific circumstances. If this is not supported
then they support Option C.

41. The Parliamentary Commissioner for the Environment would support option B if
there was evidence that a one year carry forward could be justified as being
sustainable.

Option C (100% carry forward) feedback

42. This was the preferred option from the commercial sector with 75% of
commercial submissions supporting this option.

43. Asmall number of submissions from Maori (two submissions), recreational (one
submission), and the general public/unspecified (11 submissions) also
supported this option.

44. Most of the submissions highlighted that the high purchase cost of ACE means
fishers need to target the Chinese New Year period to extract a premium price
to maintain business viability.

45. This option was identified as providing the greatest opportunity to relieve
financial pressure on affected fishers. Submissions provided estimates of the
expected financial losses for individuals and businesses ranging from $30,000 -
$600,000 per entity.

46. The NZ RLIC submission stated that the carry forward of uncaught ACE is the
single most important step that government could take to alleviate the financial
hardship caused by the export market response to Coronavirus (COVID-19). As
noted above NZ RLIC supported option B subject to conditions, otherwise it
supports Option C.

Page 8 of 12
