Brief: B20-0091

30. Some submitters were also opposed to Options B and C as they were of the
view that commercial fishers already have the ability to fish earlier in the season
and diversify into alternative markets and that allowing a carry forward would
reward poor business practice.

31. Many submitters felt disadvantaged by the commercial sector being able to
carry forward their rock lobster take, without extending any benefit to the
recreational sector.

32. The New Zealand Sport Fishing Council provided a submission on behalf of its
members acknowledging the impact of the market disruption and government's
role to try and mitigate impacts on exporters. They did not support any carry
forward of uncaught catch as they believe there are sustainability concerns for
some stocks and fishers chose to take the risk of fishing for the Chinese market.

Option B (up to10% carry forward) feedback

33. There was limited support (13%) overall for Fisheries New Zealand’s preferred
option to carry forward up to 10% of the uncaught ACE (Option B). Notably the
majority of Maori supported this option with 62% of Maori (non-commercial)
submissions in support of this option to carry forward up to 10% of uncaught
ACE, in addition to commercial Maori interests.

34. Asmall number of submissions from commercial (34 submissions), recreational
(two submissions) and the general public/unspecified (four submissions) also
supported this option.

35. Commercial submissions 9@O@

supporting this option expressed the
view that this was a pragmatic option that would provide adequate relief to
fishers and local communities. This option was also supported for the flexibility
to address future market fluctuations.

36. It was noted by representatives from other commercial fishing sectors (including
Paua Industry Council members) that this option would provide rock lobster
fishers with the same catch flexibility and equity as most other fisheries. Only
6% of stocks within the Quota Management System (QMS) are prevented from
10% carry forward.

37. This option was also viewed as a fairer option for ‘more prudent’ commercial
fishers who spread their fishing efforts throughout the year, selling their product
for less than the premium market prices usually associated with the Chinese
New Year period.

Page 7 of 12
