Brief: B20-0065

16. We prefer option (a) in favour of a legislative approach to increase ACE carry
forward beyond 10% because:

a. Carrying forward a higher tonnage could result in a significant increase in
fishing effort in the next fishing year, increasing risks of sustainability
concerns and potentially impacting recreational and customary sectors
through localised depletions;

b. It would set precedent and expectations for Government legislative
intervention and higher carry forward thresholds, to address future market
fluctuations for rock lobster and other fisheries;

c. Legislative change would be extremely challenging to complete before the
1 April 2020 fishing year begins. Amending the Act would require an
Amendment Bill. Even for a small and straightforward Bill, this process
would usually take around a year, including consideration by Select
Committee, notwithstanding the election. The process could be expedited
through an urgent process if accorded high priority and there was
sufficient Parliamentary support.

17, $8: 9(2)(9)(i)

on-commercial fishers may feel that increasing
the amount of commercial catch in the next fishing year could impact their ability

to catch rock lobster. Negative perception risks will be higher if more than 10%

of ACE is carried forward via a legislative amendment.

18. We will continue to work with industry, and consider feedback from consultation,
in order to understand how the proposed carry forward would align with ongoing
fisheries management and future TACC decisions.

Process for carrying forward up to 10% of ACE

19. Should you agree to this approach, carrying forward 10% of rock lobster ACE
before the 1 April 2020 fishing year would require an Order in Council along a
rapid timeframe, including a waiver of the 28 day rule. Cabinet support to go
directly to the Cabinet Legislation Committee without formal approval from the
Cabinet Economic Development Committee would be required. Consultation is
also required under the Act, and we propose a truncated one to two week
consultation process.

20. Should you agree to this approach, Fisheries New Zealand will undertake
targeted consultation with tangata whenua and stakeholders commencing in
February.

Page 8 of 9
