Brief: B20-0065

Background

1. On 4 February 2020 we provided you with options to address the rock lobster
industry's request for Government support, in relation to impacts of the
Coronavirus on rock lobster exports to China [B20-0067 refers].

2. You agreed for officials to progress the option to carry forward uncaught ACE
into the next fishing year (which begins on 1 April 2020). We propose an
approach that provides relief for rock lobster fishers highly-exposed to the
unexpected market impacts of the Coronavirus, without creating sustainability
risks, in conjunction with measures they can take themselves to mitigate
financial impacts (such as further exploring domestic and frozen market
alternatives).

3. $ 9(2)(ba)(i)

4, s9(2)(ba)(i)

5. There are approximately 260 permit holders with ACE holdings across ten rock
lobster stocks. There will be variation between rock lobster fishers in terms of
economic impact. Smaller operators with large holdings of unfished ACE would
be the most exposed, and RLIC considers that some fishers will be severely
impacted.

6. Fisheries New Zealand estimates that overall, 22% of rock lobster ACE across
all stocks is currently unfished (611 tonnes). However, the total amount of
unfished ACE will depend on proportions that remain unfished and are returned
from holding facilities. This will not be known until all catch returns have been
submitted and accounted for at the end of the current fishing year.

7. We do not know how long the demand on Chinese exports will continue, but
expect it likely that it will take until beyond the current fishing year for the
Chinese rock lobster market to recover.

8. We understand that the Tasmanian authorities are implementing full carry
forward of any uncaught rock lobster catch, to address similar market issues.
Other Australian States are considering similar measures. Both industry and
New Zealand officials are staying in close discussion with our Australian
counterparts, and will keep you updated.

Page 5 of 9
