Brief: B20-0065

Key Messages

1. On 4 February 2020 we provided you with options to address the Rock Lobster
Industry Council’s (RLIC) request for Government support, in relation to impacts
of the Coronavirus on rock lobster exports to China [B20-0067 refers].

2. You agreed for officials to progress the option to carry forward uncaught Annual
Catch Entitlement (ACE) into the next fishing year (beginning 1 April 2020). We
propose an approach that provides relief for rock lobster fishers highly-exposed
to the unexpected market impacts of the Coronavirus, without creating
sustainability risks, in conjunction with measures that they can take themselves
to mitigate financial impacts.

3. You have announced the decision to allow industry to release rock lobster
currently in holding pots, under supervision of Fisheries Officers, subject to
biosecurity and survivability criteria. This process is underway, and we will
continue to update you on this.

4, s9(2)(ba)(i)

5. Should you agree to carry forward rock lobster ACE, there are two options:

a. Carrying forward up to 10% of ACE held by fishers, which is enabled by
the Fisheries Act 1996 (the Act) in principle, and would require an Order in
Council and consultation to remove rock lobster from Schedule 5A of the
Act; or

b. — Carrying forward all uncaught ACE, in excess of the current 10%
threshold, which is not currently authorised under section 67A of the Act
and would therefore require a legislative amendment.

6. Fisheries New Zealand considers that option (a), in combination with wider
commitments to enable industry to return held rock lobster, would provide
appropriate support to industry. This option would provide rock lobster fishers
with the same catch flexibility as some other fisheries, would not pose additional
sustainability risks, avoids precedent and expectations of exceeding
sustainability thresholds to address future market fluctuations, and is most
readily achieved within the 1 April 2020 timeframe to enable fishers to make
catch decisions about uncaught ACE this fishing year.

7. Carrying forward 10% of rock lobster ACE before the 1 April 2020 fishing year
would require an Order in Council along a rapid timeframe, including a waiver of
the 28 day rule. Cabinet support would be required to go directly to the Cabinet
Legislation Committee without formal approval from the Cabinet Economic
Development Committee. Consultation is also required under the Act.

8. | Should you agree to progress the carry forward proposal, we will provide you
with a draft consultation document on options for carrying forward uncaught
rock lobster ACE. If you consider it is necessary to inform or seek Cabinet
approval prior to consulting, we suggest that you do so on 17 February 2020.

Page 2 of 9
