Jo.
Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs
Chair, Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
COVID-19: Repatriation Flights: a Framework for Decision-making
on the Repatriation of Foreign Nationals
Proposal
There are around 380,000 foreigners in New Zealand on temporary work visas, many
of whom wish to return home. Some governments are seeking to organise repatriation
flights for their citizens. This paper considers the range of issues which should factor
into whether and how the New Zealand Government approves such flights. The paper
recommends that we place a temporary hold on such repatriation flights till 1 April, so
that a framework for considering and managing the requests of foreign governments
can be developed.
Background
2 Like New Zealanders, stranded foreign nationals in New Zealand are expected
to shelter in place, unless they have secured arrangements to depart. While it is
difficult to know how many wish to leave, there are estimated to be in excess of 80,000
foreign visitors in New Zealand (plus 300,000 on temporary student and work visas).
Several foreign governments wish to sponsor assisted departure flights for these
people, with the first scheduled as early as today (27 March).
3 A 25 March paper to COVID Ministers noted that, with New Zealand likely to be
subject to movement restrictions for some time, we should keep under review the
option of government-sponsored assisted departures of foreign nationals in coming
weeks. Where possible, we should only facilitate government-sponsored assisted
departures if that can be done in a measured way that the New Zealand government
system can sustain and that does not jeopardise our overarching objective to stop the
spread of COVID19. The purpose of this paper is to develop a decision-making
framework for those choices, reflecting the following considerations:
(i) “Flattening the curve”. A balance-of-benefits judgement needs to be made on
the net impact on the public health system of facilitating managed departures.
a. Getting foreign nationals out would remove a small amount of demand
on public health services. But that is only net beneficial if departures can
1
