IN-CONFIDENCE

17. However, publishing the names of businesses may breach privacy rights. Given the
timeframes available, officials have not been able to confirm what is legally on whether
this is possible.

18. If Ministers wish to press ahead with this, the only way it can be implemented at such
short notice is by altering the disclaimer attached to the subsidy, to notify employers
that their firm's name may be published in the future.

19. Werecommend you direct officials to investigate this further and include a notification |
that the businesses name may be published in the disclaimer.

as Mf. J
Clarifying treatment of new employers established less than a year ago
A

24. The current setting for, e include a revenue loss threshold of 30%. This is
meant to be applied by comparing revenue for the period of one month with the same
month a year eal i, employer declares that their revenue for the month of
March 2020 is half thafof March 2019 and this is related to COVID-19).

25. However, f ers established after March 17 2019, there will not be a
comparab until the 17" of April, and that month may not be realistic
compé ison) here is significant churn in the economy each year, meaning around 10%

f e/less than a year old at a given time. It is reasonable to provide some
iehcy for employers less than a year old, but for those incorporated recently, the risk
gaming becomes significant.

26. le therefore recommend that employers incorporated between 17 March 2019 and 1
December 2019 (around the time COVID-19 began appearing in China) should be able
to make a revenue loss comparison against an alternative month, which they consider
= a reasonable — of the income losses caused by COVID-19./) 1

27. This setting is imperfect and is likely to produce some additional deadweight losses by
providing support to firms that are not ultimately viable. The quantitative impact of this
choice is unclear.

2020/69 COVID-19 - Minor policy decisions and amendments for business continuity package Page 8

IN-CONFIDENCE
