IN-CONFIDENCE

Treasury Report: COVID-19 - Minor policy decisions and amendments

for business continuity package

Purpose of Report

2. Tourgently seek your joint decisions on several policy matters relating to the Wage
Subsidy and Leave payments scheme of the COVID-19 business continuity package.
These issues have emerged during further design work and your decisions are
necessary to enable immediate implementation of the schemes at 2:00 pm, on 1.
March 2020 when announcements about the scheme are made.

3. For clarity the paper is divided into decisions on the leave payment schem ,
Cabinet has delegated authority to the Minister of Finance, and the Mini: ‘ocial
Development and Workplace Relations and Safety to approve other polit atters and
operational details of the scheme.

4. The second part of the paper addresses amendments and poliey d ion relating to
the wage subsidy scheme. Cabinet has delegated authority ister of Finance,
the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Soci /elopment and the
Minister of Revenue to make final technical design degisi bout the targeted wage
subsidy scheme.

5.

SG
Decisions for the Covi \e fe payment scheme
Clarify that those car fo a dependent who needs to self-isolate or tests positive for
COVID-19 are eli, jis scheme.
6.  OnMon 1 rch 2020 Cabinet agreed to establish a financial assistance scheme
to co pense fe and incentivise workers to self-isolate to help manage the spread of the
CQVID-49.virus in New Zealand.
fas agreed the key elements of the scheme would comprise of:
an entitlement for a period of 14 days for those who self-isolate in accordance with
Ministry of Health guidelines and register with Healthline, and for the entire period of
sickness for those who contract COVID-19

b eligibility will be only for those who are not able to work from home;

¢_ eligibility will be only for those legally working in New Zealand; a payment equal to
the Wage Subsidy scheme ($585.80 per week per full time worker);

d employers apply for the entitlement on behalf of workers;

e payments are made to employers on agreement that they will be passed on in full to
their employees or workers; and

2020/69 COVID-19 - Minor policy decisions and amendments for business continuity package Page 6

IN-CONFIDENCE
