8. Restarting this pipeline is critical to ensure that there is gas supply available for thermal
generation in the winter, or to provide gas for thermal back-up for electricity generation if
COVID-19 issues affect other electricity generation assets.

9. The international crew for whom exemptions are being sought includes: aa

Privacy of natural The international crew are employed in the following positions:
Conimercial Information

10. These crew members will self-isolate on arrival in New Zealand at the port of entry, as is
tequired for all those arriving from overseas, before joining the project. It is anticipated that
they will be staying in a hotel for their period of self-isolation.

Maritime pilots

11. An exemption is also being squaht for one maritime pilot. The pilot is Privacy aw
who are currently located in PMvacy of — ,

natural

12. Ensuring an adequate workforce of maritime pilots, who are responsible for@uiding vessels
into New Zealand ports, is essential for ensuring that essential freigh€antinWés to flow to
and around New Zealand. There is only a limited number of qualified New Zealand pilots
(approximately 70 across New Zealand ports), who will need tols@obsetve health and
safety practices that ensure that they are not unreasonably"placed atirisk, in particular when
piloting vessels from Australia (where there is only a 3-4 day trans®fasman travel time under
normal circumstances, so a 14-day self-isolation period i§ not practical, without vessels
anchoring out from port).

13. Facilitating the relocation of a limited number of Pilots from Australia will help support this
essential workforce (so long as this does not itself give rise to any industrial or demarcation
issues).

The proposed exemptions would be given éffect to by way of a Special Direction

signed by the Minister of Immigratioff y

14. If Ministers agree, a Special Diréctioh has been drafted for the signature of the Minister of
Immigration to enable an-oversideof the border restrictions for these particular groups.

We recommend that-Ministers with Power to Act delegate authority

to decide further exemptions to the Minister of Immigration =

15. Officials are curtepitlyjworking on a process to manage and decide requests for exemptions
to the travelréstrietions for workers in essential services.

16. In the fifst INstance, we recommend that Ministers with Power to Act delegate authority to
décide further exemptions to the Minister of Immigration, on advice from the relevant senior
Officials in the lead agency for each essential service. The lead agency would be responsible
fordetermining that requests are indeed essential, and in doing so would need to include
consideration of any redeployment opportunities for people already in New Zealand.

Annexes

ee
Annex One: Special Direction
in Confidence 6
