Cabinet has agreed high level parameters for exemptions to the COVID-
19 border restrictions
1. On 19 March 2020, Cabinet agreed to border restrictions preventing entry to New Zealand
[CAB-20-MIN-0122 refers]. The following groups are not subject to the restrictions:
a. New Zealand citizens and residence class visa holders;
b. The partner, legal guardian or any dependent children travelling with a New Zealand
citizen or residence class visa holder;
c. Australian citizens and permanent residence class visa holders ordinarily resid@nt in
New Zealand; and
d. People subject to regulation 25 or the Immigration (Visa, Entry Permissiorand
Related Matters) Regulations 2010, which includes air and marine crew.

2. Cabinet also agreed high level parameters for case-by-case exemptions fo<SOWID-19 border

restrictions, which include [CAB-20-MIN-0122 refers]:

a. Those who need to travel for humanitarian reasons;

b. Essential health workers;

c. — Citizens of Samoa and Tonga for essential travel to*ew Zealand;

d. Those on visitor visas who are partners or dépendefits of a temporary work or student
visa holder, and who normally live in NewZealand; and

e. Any other essential workers identified by thé group of Ministers with Power to Act.

Requests have been made fot\eéxemptions to the travel restrictions

for workers in essential services : :

3. Officials have received two urgent requests to enable essential workers in the gas and
maritime freight sectors to,enter New Zealand to work on maintenance of critical gas supply
infrastructure and contiquitytof matitime freight for consideration under the exemption in
paragraph 2 above. These workers will be required to hold valid visas.

4. These requests are Suppofted by the Infrastructure Pillar of the COVID-19 government
response, as it isdeemed/Critical to the maintenance of New Zealand’s gas supply and
freight continuity.

Workers required to maintain essential gas supply

5.  Agetewchange for the Normand Baltic vessel currently undertaking the Pohokura pipeline
Project is Scheduled for 4-8 April 2020. An exception is being sought to enable the international
@reW required to complete the crew changeover to enter New Zealand within the next few days.

6. The*pipeline between the offshore Pohokura production wells and the onshore production
station is currently shut-down due for a maintenance programme. This is being conducted due
to the issues in 2018-2019 which led to the unexpected shut-down of this pipeline. In order for
OMV to meet regulatory requirements, this work must be completed by 1 July 2020.

7. _ This pipeline conveys approximately 25 per cent of New Zealand’s natural gas supply. It plays
a key role in supporting the resiliency of the natural gas supply if other gas production fields
are required to shut-down due to illness or production issues. The pipeline also supports
production of some LPG which is consumed domestically.

In Confidence 5
