27. For students with visas expiring on or before 31 March, the Minister of Immigration would
give a Special Direction that would waive most of the requirements in an application for a
visa. Short-term visas could be granted to eg 31 May to allow them to come to New Zealand
and make their substantive student visa application here, as they would have been able to do
if the travel restrictions were not in place. Further details on this process are included in
Annex Two.

28. An unknown proportion of this cohort would ordinarily need to undergo a chest x-ray for TB
screening as part of their visa application. While there is additional risk in removing health
requirements, this would be only for a short period, and the situation would have been the
same if the students had come to New Zealand before their visa expiry. If required, the chest
x-ray would be done in New Zealand.

Next steps

29. . Depending on Cabinet's decisions tomorrow, MBIE will prepare more detailed advice for you
as soon as possible around changes to Immigration Instructions and other decisions
required, as well as for finalisation by Cabinet. This will include advice on the likely
Operational costs of an exemption process that would fall on the Crown.

30. Wee will also work with the Ministry of Education, TEC and the Ministry of Health to ensure
that the specific required conditions on providers for an exemptions process to work are
understood and integrated into their plan, including how sponsorship by providers might work
for students on the special short term visas.

31. We will continue to work on a resourcing plan for the work that will be involved, and to
finalise advice on the shortest timeframes required to get this in place. We do not anticipate
this will be more than a few days following final Cabinet decisions (which could be on 2
March).

32. There will be additional border costs in INZ relating to the management of the COVID-19
global health emergency, and we will provide further advice in due course of the financial
impacts on the Crown-funded memorandum account balance.

Annexes

a

Annex One: Australian Government decisions

Annex Two: Process for exemptions

Annex Three: Talking Points for Cabinet

Sensitive 6
