Annex Three: Talking points for Cabinet

=e ee Oe

Decision to continue our current border restrictions on travel from mainland China

¢ The current restrictions on travel from mainland China to New Zealand expire tonight at 23:59.

¢ | fully support the Ministers of Health’s proposal to renew these for a further 8 days.

¢ [note that officials also recommended last week that we extend the travel ban to the Diamond
Princess cruise ship. No decision has yet been taken by Ministers with Power to Act.

¢ | need to give effect to the rollover of the wider restrictions through Immigration Instructions this
afternoon. Ideally, | would implement the cruise ship restrictions at the same time, if we wish to
make them.

Potential exemption from restrictions for students

« Last week DEV considered options for exemptions from the travel restrictions.

¢ While potentially feasible for some groups, further work was needed on how to operationalise
exemptions. We need confidence the threat to public health can be managed in practice and in
operational readiness to get it right.

* Since then, Australia has announced a very limited exemption - in principle - for some school
students in Years 11 and 12. This is subject to specific conditions being met and applies to
fewer than 1000 students. Their rationale was to limit the disruption to students graduating.
This is less necessary for New Zealand, given Te Kura is operating in China.

* Officials have provided updated advice to joint Ministers over the weekend. This advised that
an exemption for a subset of students would be viable if certain conditions can be met.

¢ The main rationale for any New Zealand exemption for students over any other visa category
(except visitors, for whom an exemption will not ever be feasible) is the time-sensitivity of start
dates for courses.

¢ Adecision is needed on what student cohorts, if any, we should exempt. This could now be
quite a narrow exemption if we wished, although | note the education sector would like to keep
this open to all providers.

Ability to implement exemptions at the border

¢ INZ are already implementing exceptions to the restrictions on a manual, case by case basis.
This is taking place at a very small scale.

« Aw hole of visa class (ie all students) exemption could be operationalised very quickly if public
health conditions were met. My officials have work underway to upgrade the international
border system to automate this. The upgrade should come online in early March.

¢ However it is now clear that any approach to operationalising exemptions for students will need
to be for subsets of that visa class.

* This is the only approach that is practicable and feasible for the education sector and that
meets public health requirements.

¢ Even if the exemption is for “all student visa holders” at a policy level, in practice the approach
will be limited to those providers who sign up to the requirements and can meet them. Some
providers or schools may not wish to do so or be able to do so. This means a manual process.

« Last week, we advised a manual process at large scale was not likely practicable at pace. My
Officials have worked to find ways that can manage this; given their work, | believe a manual
Process can be implemented so long as the pace and scale are staggered. The approach
proposed provides the conditions to make that work. We are also working to minimise the

Sensitive 10
