Annex Two: Process for exemptions in INZ and at border
ee eee eee Eee NG A Doren
Immigration processes to board and process an incoming traveller to New Zealand

1. The current restrictions mean that those who are subject to the ban are not able to travel to
New Zealand if they have been present in China or transited through China in the 14 days prior
to travel. If people subject to the ban are boarding from a mainland China airport, the check in
agent receives an automatic “Border Closed” response when attempting to check in.

2. If people are boarding from another port outside of mainland China, the check in agent must
ask if they have been in China within the previous 14 Days. If they respond “yes”, the agent
must contact the Immigration Border Office (IBO) by telephone and, under current instructions,
an immigration officer at IBO will deny uplift and that person cannot be checked in and
boarded.

3. The international system which generates automatic board/do not board directives to check in
agents is not currently functionally capable of distinguishing by visa category or other
characteristics (such as having been previously living in New Zealand prior to the restrictions
being put in place). The current functionality is set to only distinguish between New Zealand
citizens and residents, and all other visa holders. Individual, case-by-case, manual exceptions
are able to be implemented now, but this is happening in only small numbers (e.g. the
immediate family of NZ citizens and residents and Australians who are ordinarily resident in
New Zealand and government-to-government requests for individuals such as diplomatic staff).

4. Only a person with delegated authority from the Chief Executive of MBIE may issue a board/do
not board directive.

Immigration requirements to board and process incoming travellers if large scale

exemptions are in place
5. The only way to exempt large groups is to take the manual process to a much larger
scale. The high level requirements and process would be as follows:
¢ A\list of eligible travellers would need to be generated and provided to INZ. Before
providing to INZ, this list would have been authorised by relevant the authorities, such as
the Ministry of Health and in the case of students, the Ministry of Education in the case of
students.

¢ The traveller would be contacted and informed that they are eligible to travel.

¢ The traveller would arrive at check in and agent would receive a “Border Closed” message
upon check in. The traveller would provide their confirmation of their ability to travel and
advising the agent to contact the IBO by telephone.

¢ The IBO will check that the traveller is on the list that has been provided to INZ and either
advise the agent to check in and board the traveller or not. The agent will generate a
manual boarding pass to enable boarding.

6. Our current thinking is that this could be operationalised as follows:

« _ List from education providers is checked for validity of visas

¢ Eligible students informed by INZ or education provider they are exempt (subject to
conditions on visa still being met)

¢ Expiring visa students are asked by INZ if they wish to seek a short term visa enabling
them to travel and reapply onshore for a substantive new student visa (and informed
when/if granted)

¢ _INZ stand up exemption team

¢ Team available to confirm exemption/override at check-in on 1:1 basis with check-in staff
over the phone or by SITATEX

Sensitive 8
