¢ In addition, we may able to do bulk pre-approvals when we obtain manifests for flights from
airlines and pre-approve manual overrides of restrictions for exempted passengers to
streamline the process for when the check-in staff contact INZ

¢ We may also be able to notify airline before check-in of exempted passengers and confirm
manual override of restrictions in advance; however, experience shows that check-in staff
are likely to still call for a 1:1 confirmation, and we will need to work with airlines on their
approach to implementation into check-in systems.

Immigration processes for returning students granted a short-term visa to allow them to

apply for their substantive student visa onshore

7. If exempt, students with visas expiring on or before 31 March could be granted a short-term
visa to allow them to come onshore to apply for their substantive student visa. The Minister of

Immigration would give a Special Direction waiving most of the application requirements for this

special cohort.

8. The high-level process to facilitate these visas would be as follows: :
¢ The Minister of Immigration would give a Special Direction to waive most prescribed
student visa application requirements, including fees.

¢ Aninstructions change is required to set out criteria for the grant of a short-term visa, to
students who meet high level criteria for this short term bridging visa.

* Education providers would supply INZ with a list of names of students to be considered.
Only education providers who have an approved plan (health and education) in place for
self-isolation processes would be able to support returning students on facilitated
applications.

¢ Students will need to engage with INZ to indicate their desire to “apply” to continue their
studies in NZ, and provide or confirm existing service address and contact details. This
interaction likely to be via email.

¢ Short-term visas may then be granted to those students who meet the new criteria in
immigration instructions. While INZ is working through how this process could be
automated, initially decision-making would be manual.

* Once the students are granted the short-term visa and are onshore, they can apply for their
substantive student visa as normal. Providers may need to facilitate the translation of
documentation that is not in English.

Sensitive 9
