could be allowed to enter New Zealand. Even if the exemption at a policy level is for “all

student visa holders” in theory, the approach being contemplated will be limited to those

providers who sign up to the requirements and can meet them, and some providers or
schools may not wish to do so or be able to do so.

13. MBIE has been anticipating this outcome, and has been working at pace to ensure that this
can be implemented as smartly and quickly as possible, and with least disruption to other
visa processing or flight screening, if the Government wishes to pursue this option.

14. We are still working through the details, and in particular how we will resource this work, but
with a number of conditions put in place, we consider that a case by case approach can be
operationalised at the likely scale and pace of incoming students from China.

15. This is based on the following assumptions and conditions relevant to immigration:

. Flights from China will limit and stagger the flow of students under any scenario. While
more flights may come on stream over coming weeks, there is a limit to how fast
returning and new students can get tickets even once providers are approved to take
them.

. Some providers are not likely to meet eligibility requirements to receive students from
China or be willing to do so.

2 __ |nternational relations

. The appropriate education agency will confirm to INZ the list of students and providers
that are eligible for any exemption. This will be required at least 72 hours before any
flight (ie aligned with Passenger Name Record).

° Airlines will cooperate in providing passenger manifests as early as possible to INZ and
will accept the ‘override process’ we put in place for exempted travellers.

. Communications with students will need to be managed carefully, and mainly by
education providers.

. That either standard conditions for student visas can be met by the student as normal
or that a sponsor (such as the education provider) can act as a guarantor — this
includes for fees, living costs, and health insurance or health costs that are not covered
by insurance.

. That accompanying family members or partners are not exempt, with the possible
exception of guardians for minors should any become eligible to enter New Zealand via
the exemptions process. One off exceptions to this rule can likely be considered on
humanitarian grounds at the margins.

16. In summary, officials are recommending that Cabinet could EITHER:

. Direct officials to report back with more detailed options before a go/no-go decision is
made, and announce that work is underway and will be reported back to Cabinet for a
decision by, say, Monday 2 March;

OR if Ministers wish to go further tomorrow:

. Agree that the travel restrictions will be lifted for some students as soon as possible,
and that detailed requirements to support this are being worked through with decisions
expected on Monday 2 March.

Sensitive 3
