17. On whether these decisions are advisable at this point, MBIE has taken the view that the risk
to public health is the key consideration, alongside effective border management (avoiding
chaos) and as long as negative policy implications from resource reprioritisation can be
minimised. Visa processing and other immigration activities are already under pressure due
to the loss of the Beijing office, but we are working on putting in place a team of immigration
officers that can process the exemptions drawing from other parts of the business where
Possible in order to minimise further disruption to visa processing in particular. Putting this
team together will mean diverting staff from other core work, eg could be taken from
compliance.

18. Ministers will also want to consider any exemptions in light of the Ministry of Health's view on
tisks, but also wider public perceptions, international developments, and economic benefits.
In particular, any exemptions also pose risks to the Pacific if they are not well managed.

19. Equally, any decisions on exemptions will need to be carefully managed with Australia, given
the nature of our largely common border and trans-Tasman travel. This may militate against
a broader exemptions approach that proceeds at a much faster pace than Australia.
Australia’s recent change is very narrow and only applies to some school students in Years
11 and 12. Although the Ministry of Education favours a whole of sector option, Ministers
could agree to a more limited exemption than that. This could be operationalised as above.

20. Further issues to work through over coming days include:

. How we manage students who are offshore with expiring visas before an exemption
can be implemented (see joint briefing);

. Changes to immigration instructions required to enable any exemptions and provide for
a special visa;

. Priorities for visa processing; and

. How further locations of concern might be managed in respect of both restrictions and
student exemptions (ie precedent risk).

21. As previously advised, in respect of other visa holders, such as workers and families, there
may also be a case for an exemption. However, our advice at this point is:

. The short term priority should be students, especially returning students, given that
enrolment is time-sensitive.

. There is limited pressure or evidence of demand for these exemptions at scale, and at
the margins humanitarian cases can be considered already (ie where the breadwinner
is caught offshore and their family is in New Zealand).

. Government could move to widen the exemptions after students have been
implemented if conditions warrant doing so.

Oral item on immigration processes around the restrictions and any

exemptions

gS

22. Talking points are provided at Annex Three for Cabinet on Monday reflecting the general
process and the new processes we are proposing above, if Cabinet approves an exemptions
policy.

23. In short, the proposed process at the border is as follows:

. List from education providers of named students is checked for validity of visas

° Eligible students informed by education provider they are exempt (subject to conditions
on visa still being met)

Sensitive 4
