° Expiring visa students are asked by INZ if they wish to seek a short term visa enabling
them to travel to New Zealand and reapply onshore (and informed when/if granted)

. INZ stand up an exemption team of immigration officers, with required and relevant
authorisations

° INZ team would be available to confirm exemptions and approve a manual override of
the border closure on a 1:1 basis with check-in staff in China either over the phone or
through SITATEX

. In addition, we may able to do bulk pre-approvals when we obtain manifests for flights
from airlines or through Passenger Name Record data (up to 72 hours ahead of
boarding) and pre-approve manual overrides of restrictions for exempted passengers
to streamline the process for when the check-in staff contact INZ

° We may also be able to notify airlines before check-in of exempted passengers and
confirm manual override of restrictions in advance; however, experience shows that
check-in staff are likely to still call for a 1:1 confirmation, and we will need to work with
airlines on their approach to implementation into check-in systems.

Immigration processes around exemptions for returning students whose visas are due to

expire by 31 March 2020

24. You will also need to make decisions around how we facilitate students to come back to New
Zealand if their visa has expired while the ban is in place. Our advice on this follows:

. Returning students and those who are first-time applicants will have different processes
around an exemption to the travel restrictions.

. There are approximately 4,500" students who have travelled back to China after their
course finished in 2019 and are likely to have intended to return to New Zealand in
2020 to continue their studies, whose visas expire in February or March 2020. The
large majority of these have a visa expiry date of 31 March.

. This expiry date ordinarily allows students to return to NZ in early 2020, before their
course starts, to apply for another student visa. The border restrictions have prevented
this process.

. If the visas of this cohort expire whilst they are still offshore, they will have to submit a
new visa application, which is more time-intensive for the student and INZ than an
onshore re-application. There are also logistical difficulties given the situation in China
and the closure of INZ’s Beijing Office (eg access to approved panel physicians and
translators).

25. For those eligible for the exemption, we recommend an approach could be to facilitate this
cohort of students to apply for a short-term visa to allow them to travel to New Zealand and
apply onshore for their substantive student visa (eg 2-months). This is essentially achieving
the same outcome as a visa extension (shifting the 31 March expiry date to 31 May), a
process INZ cannot carry out under current legislation.

26. This is not an approach we would recommend using broadly, but may be in light of the
Current situation and the unique combination of factors in this situation, such as public health,
economic considerations and the situation of the visa holders themselves. Consideration will
also need to be given whether or not to charge a fee for sucha process.

‘This is a subset of the approximate 6000 visa holders with Feb or March expiry dates who are out of New

Zealand, and is based on the number of students with March 2019 expiry dates who applied onshore for

another student visa which was granted.

Sensitive 5
