impacts on wider visa processing and other immigration core services, such as security
screening of flights.
¢ What this process will require is:
o A\list of named students that can be allowed to enter New Zealand, at least 72 hours
ahead of individuals boarding flights
© The student would be contacted and informed that they are eligible to travel.
o This remains subject to their visa conditions continuing to be met, including having
health insurance and ability to pay fees and living costs
o Immigration officers will need to approve a manual override of the border closure for
each individual visa holder who is exempted, prior to them boarding
© This will require a 1:1 phone call with check-in staff in China in most cases, but we are
looking to pre-screen flights as far as possible to streamline this process.
Students with expiring visas before 31 March 2020
¢ Of the 10,000 Chinese nationals with student visas who are currently offshore, over 6,000 have
visas expiring before 31 March 2020.
¢ My officials estimate three quarters of these would have expected to enter New Zealand and
apply for a new student visa while studying.
¢ There is no ability to extend visa durations for these circumstances under the Immigration Act.
A workaround is needed, or those students whose visas expire will have to apply for a new visa
offshore. This is logistically difficult given the closure of the Beijing office and difficulties in
China accessing doctors for medical screening (eg TB) and interpreters.
¢  Itmay be possible to manage this through a short term visa being issued under Special
Direction. This would have the effect of extending their visa duration, and enable them to enter
New Zealand, undertake their studies, and reapply for a substantive student visa onshore.
¢ [am willing to put this in place, if Cabinet wishes to implement an exemption.
Operational impacts from implementing an exemption
¢ Officials have been working to ensure that this can be implemented as smartly and quickly as
possible, and with least disruption to other visa processing or flight screening.
* The scale and pace of incoming students from China will also be limited by external factors —
availability of flights, how long it takes providers to be ready to meet the health requirements.
¢ But there will be impacts from diverting immigration officers from other service areas. This is on
top of the pressure on the system from the loss of 130 immigration officers while the Beijing
office remains closed.
* Trade-offs can of course be made, but an exemption is not cost free.
¢ With a number of conditions put in place, and limiting any exemptions to cohorts with a realistic
prospect of meeting those conditions, ! consider that a case by case approach can be
operationalised at the likely scale and pace of incoming students from China.
Sensitive 1
