Annex One: Australian Government decisions

ei e iTL LA Ah AL

1. On 22 February the Australian government announced a limited exemption “pathway” from
their border restrictions for eligible Year 11 and Year 12 students who remain in China, to be
managed on a case-by-case basis.

2. These student cohorts were chosen on the grounds of avoiding disruption to graduation for
students who have completed substantial schooling in Australia already. Students studying at
earlier year levels are less likely to be so immediately impacted and minors are seen to pose
more challenges.

3. There are approximately 360 Year 11 and 400 Year 12 students who might be eligible to apply
for the exemption.

4. The following criteria apply to determine eligibility for the exemption. Students must:

a. Not be from Hubei province (or have visited the province since the outbreak of COVID-
19)

b. Be already enrolled in school with a valid visa and security checks completed

c. Have a credible 14-day self-isolation plan on arrival to the standard required by
State/Territory health authorities.

d. The Australian Border Force (ABF) considers that they meet the criteria for exemption
(and will provide uplift authority for exempt travellers).

5. The exemption will also apply to any guardians of the students, on the same conditions.

6. Exemptions will be reviewed and approved by the Australian Border Force (ABF) commissioner
and staff on a case-by-case basis, as part of which process the ABF will need to get the
approval of the Sate/Territory Authorities (where the prospective student intends to study),
confirming they are comfortable with the proposed self-isolation plan for the student once in
Australia. State/Territory authorities will then continue to monitor the students during self-
isolation.

7. This decision is driven by evolving medical advice. The situation in Australia remained stable
with no new cases or person-to-person transmission in the last week amonast the aeneral
population (excluding cruise ships). International relations

8. In affording a “limited pathway’, the Australian medical authorities are confident that letting ina
small number of Chinese students will not materially affect the public health risk in Australia.

9. Australian Health Minister Hunt signalled that officials would continue to look at the evolving
medical picture in the coming days, with a view to considering whether the situation would
merit looking at a potentially wider exemption to include some tertiary students, with this work
being guided by expert medical advice.

Sensitive 7
