Background

tt

5. Yesterday, on 22 February 2020, the Australian Government announced limited senior
secondary school student exemptions from their border restrictions to be managed on a case
by case basis. It is expected that the numbers involved will be less than 1000 students. In
the announcement, the Government indicated that:

. In affording such a limited pathway, the Australian medical authorities are confident
that the low numbers will not materially affect the public health risk in Australia.

. This is based in part on the signs of a stabilising picture across China, albeit that
Australia is potentially concerned about the potentially worsening situation in other
(unnamed) regions/countries.

. The rationale for the decision to allow some senior school students to enter Australia is
to avoid disruption to graduation for students who have completed substantial
schooling in Australia already. Students studying at earlier year levels are less likely to
be so immediately impacted and minors are seen to pose more challenges.

. Officials will continue to look at the evolving medical picture in the coming days with a
view to considering whether a wider exemption could be considered for some tertiary
students.

° All further work and decisions will be guided by expert medical advice under the
leadership of Australia’s Chief Medical Officer.

6. Attached at Annex A is a summary of the recent decision by the Australian Government.

7, Confidential information entrusted to the Government

Joint briefing and oral item at Cabinet — potential student exemption

8. The joint briefing paper “Additional information to support Ministers’ decision” provides advice
in respect of options for Cabinet to discuss tomorrow.

9. Officials have previously advised that we continue to recommend taking a precautionary
approach, but that as soon as the overall threat to public health is considered manageable
and restrictions can be lifted, they should be. Further work has been underway on these
matters since the Cabinet Economic Development Committee (DEV) meeting on
Wednesday.

10. As discussed with you, MBIE has been working on changes to our systems to enable us to
distinguish temporary visa holders by visa category in order to facilitate an automated
approach where possible — an exemption for whole visa categories (eg student). This
function is likely to be in place in early March.

11. Our advice to date has been that large scale manual exemptions (involving case by case
consideration after check-in) are not practicable - ie 10,000 visa holders in a short time
period - and there would be a high risk of either stranded passengers or turnarounds on
arrival (ie errors either before or after boarding).

12. If Government considers that exemptions for students are now warranted, it is now
absolutely clear that any approach that is practicable and feasible for the education sector
and that meets public health requirements, will involve the provision of a list of students that

Sensitive 2
