IN CONFIDENCE
=o
Decision paper:
To Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From Ministry of Education, Ministry of Date 2/04/2020
Social Development
Purpose
1. This paper follows up decisions made on 25 March 2020 by the COVID-19 Ministerial Group
[CAB-20-MIN-0130]. Those decisions confirmed an approach to ensuring the availability of
childcare for the children of essential workers during the 4-week lock-down period from
midnight Wednesday 25 March 2020.
2. This paper seeks Ministerial decisions to confirm the mechanism and quantum of direct funding
to OSCAR providers and home-based ECE providers to enable childcare for essential workers.

Background

3. On 25 March 2020, the group of Ministers with Power to Act on COVID-19 matters noted the
need for childcare of children of essential workers during the four-week lockdown period
[CAB-20-MIN-0130]. This is in the context of schools and early childhood education providers
not being classified as essential services during the lockdown.

4. Self-management of childcare by families is the Government's preference. However, where
children of essential workers are unable to do so, the Ministerial Group agreed that individual
childcare providers be classified as essential workers, where they are working solely for one
family as part of the family’s self-isolation unit.

5. The Ministerial Group also agreed to direct funding of government-subsidised providers via
government agencies for childcare provision but noted that the numbers, and therefore the
costs, would be clarified as soon as possible.

Proposals

6. Potential providers are asking how funding will work for children of essential workers, so there
is an urgent need to confirm these arrangements. Delay may rule out providers and stop
essential workers from being able to play their part in managing the risk from COVID-19.

7. As signalled in the Cabinet paper agreeing the broad approach, only Out of School Care and
Recreation (OSCAR) providers funded by the Ministry of Social Development and home-
based early childhood education (ECE) providers funded by the Ministry of Education would
be eligible for the childcare scheme.

8. Itis uncertain how many essential workers require childcare. On Wednesday 25 March, when
only the children of essential workers were meant to attend school and early learning services,

Page 1 of 6
IN CONFIDENCE
