* workers who work for the business, while they are at work in the business or undertaking, and
* workers whose activities in Carrying out the work are influenced or directed by the business,
while the workers are carrying out the work.
6. The Primary duty is Supported by a range of sub duties that include, among other things:
* providing and maintaining a work environment that is without risks to health and Safety
* providing and maintaining safe systems of work
* monitoring the health of workers and the Conditions at the workplace for the Purpose of
Preventing injury or illness of workers arising from the Conduct of the business Or undertaking.
7. While at work, workers must:
¢ take reasonable Care of their own health and safety
¢ take care that his or her acts or omissions don’t adversely affect the health and Safety of others
° comply with any reasonable instruction given by the business to comply with the Act or
regulations
* CO-operate with any reasonable Policy or procedure of the business that relates to health and
Safety that they have been Notified of.

8. Deciding how these duties can be discharged — in respect to any emergent health and Safety risk —
should always be a matter for discussion between businesses and workers. There is a Tange of
duties and Processes for businesses to engage with workers and for them to participate in health
and safety at the workplace,

9. Employment law also establishes an overriding duty of good faith, which requires employers and
employees to (among other things):
*° work Constructively together.
° be responsive and communicative for example by giving each other relevant information in a
timely manner
* be fully honest with each other
* raise concerns or issues as soon as Possible and respond to these quickly.

10. The ultimate decision about how to manage the workplace risk Presented by COVID 19 rests with
the employer — and they should have regard to the requirements imposed by any other law, including
Public health. A reasonable approach to managing the risks of COVID 19 in Particular workplaces
would include:

a. Follow the Public health guidance for COVID-19 and require workers who should be self-
isolating to not be in contact with other people (which in Many cases will mean Staying away
from work)

b. Allow People to work from home or a place of isolation where appropriate

¢. Work in good faith with workers who are not directly covered by current Public health guidance
for COVID-19, to determine an approach that is workable and responsible in the
circumstances.

11. Clear guidance can also be given that employers should not require, or knowingly allow, workers to
come to work when they are sick or diagnosed with COVID-19, or if they have been advised to
Self-isolate under Public health guidelines for COVID-19,

12. A worker has the right to stop work if they think that doing the work would expose them or anyone
else to serious risk to health or safety, including in relation to COVID-19,

2564 19-20 In Confidence 3
