Table one: Employers’ decisions on managing COVID-19-related absences are guided by health and safety duties in the first instance
Worker is sick and/or has been Worker has been advised to self-isolate | Worker believes they are at risk of Worker is concerned that attending
diagnosed with COVID 19 under public health guidance for spreading COVID-19 their workplace places them at risk of
COVID-19 . exposure to COVID-19
(but has not been advised to self-isolate
(may not show symptoms or be sick) under health guidance for COVID-19)
Scenario 1: Worker does not | Clear guidance can be given: Clear guidance can be given: Context specific: Context specific:
want to come to workplace 5 ‘ i
Butcan workfromhome « Worker must notify employer. e Worker must notify employer. e Worker must notify employer. __ [© The employer must develop
¢ Worker can take sick leave (options for | «Worker can work from home (ordinary | * The employer may accept the worker's procedures to manage risk of COVID-
other paid leave apply) pay), or take leave (options for paid assessment or require a medical 19 in the workplace.
* Worker can work from home if willing leave apply) assessment of the “reasonableness of |. Workers must follow the instructions,
and able (ordinary pay) © The employer could be in breach of the worker's belief.” policies and procedures of their
« Employer should check-in with the their HSWA duty if they require the ¢ Worker should talk to employer about employer in order to give effect to their
worker. worker to come to work. working from home. HSWA obligations.
¢ The employer could be in breach of ¢ If there is no reasonable belief, worker | * The employer should consider the
their HSWA duty if they require the must go to work, work from home, or employees request to work from home
worker to come to work. take leave in agreement with the in light of their duties.
employer.
° If there is a reasonable belief, the
employer could be in breach of their
HSWA duty if they require the worker
to come to work.
Scenario 2: Worker does not | Clear guidance can be given: Clear guidance can be given: Context specific: Context specific:
want to come to work and 5 i ‘,
« Worker must notify employer. « Worker must notify employer. * The employer may accept the worker's * The employer must develop
cannot work from home i i assessment or require a medical 5
« Worker can take sick leave, options for | ¢ Worker should stay at away from work qu procedures to manage risk of COVID-
other paid leave can apply. (they can be paid, and options for paid assessment cine _feasonableness'of 19 in the workplace.
« Employer should check in with the leave by agreement apply). If there i . ble belief k ¢ Workers must follow the instructions,
worker. * The employer could be in breach of ° must go to work or take leave ee oF policies and procedures of their
¢ The employer could be in breach of their HSWA duty if they require the agreement with the employer. employer in order to give effect to their
their HSWA duty if they require the worker to come to work. HSWA obligations.
worker to come to work. « However, a worker has the right to stop
work if they believe that doing the work
would expose them or anyone else to
serious risk to health or safety.
Scenario 3: Worker wants to | Clear guidance can be given: Clear guidance can be given: Context specific: N/A
come to work « Employer should instruct worker to stay |» Worker should stay at home and if * Aworker may be in breach of their
away from work. possible work from home (and should HSWA duty if they go to work with a
« Employer may suspend worker if be paid - options for paid leave by reasonable belief that they are unwell
worker comes to work. agreement apply). or contagious.
* Worker can take sick leave, options for | * Employer should instruct worker to stay | » Employer must do what is reasonably
other paid leave can apply. home cea suspend worker if they practicable to ensure that other people
« Aworker should follow the reasonable ifemployer ins ein oar at work are not placed at risk.
Te .
diggetons oltre: employer they could be in breach of their HSWA
¢ Ifa worker failed to follow those duty.
reasonable directions they maybe in |. 1 the worker comes to work they are
breach of HSWA. likely to be in breach of their HSWA
duties.
2564 19-20 In Confidence 5
