Key points
« Employers must take seriously the health risks to their worker and other people in the workplace, and
to treat their employee in good faith.
¢ If an employee is diagnosed or sick with COVID-19, or has been advised to self-isolate under
Ministry of Health guidelines for COVID-19, the first consideration for an employer should be their
duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act.
¢ Clear guidance can be given that employers should not require, or knowingly allow, workers to come
to work when they are sick or diagnosed with COVID-19, or if they have been advised to self-isolate
under public health guidelines for COVID-19,
¢ Where an employee is willing and able, employers and employees should consider whether working
from home is practicable during the self-isolation period. In that case, the employee would be paid as
if ordinarily working.
¢ Where an employer requires an employee not to come to work, an employee should be paid. Sick
and anticipated sick leave may be used if the person is sick, or needs to care for a sick
dependent. Annual leave and other forms of leave can be used by agreement between the employer
and the employee.
* Officials are developing clear guidance for employers and employees, based on scenarios, with
NZCTU and BusinessNZ, to be communicated by the end of the week.
¢ Further advice on options for otherwise providing leave and Pay for leave are being developed.
Context
1. This briefing provides advice on how minimum employment standards (including entitlements to sick
leave and annual leave) apply to employees who are sick or Self-isolating, in the context of a COVID-
19 outbreak. Employers must also have regard to their health and safety at work duties.
2. These laws:

a. require employers to do everything reasonably practicable to manage the health and safety
tisks posed by COVID-19 (including, in some cases, requiring employees to stay away from
the workplace). This should be the Drimary consideration for employers.

b. enable employers and employees to make decisions about how time away from work, in these
circumstances, can be remunerated and categorised (eg as sick leave or annual leave). This
should be a secondary consideration for employers.

3. We will provide additional advice by Friday 6 March on Possible options to support workplaces to
manage employee time away from work, and Pay associated with that time, in the context of COVID-

19. Communications materials are being developed with NZCTU and BusinessNZ.

Workplace decisions on COVID-19 must be guided by health and safety duties

4. COVID-19 presents a workplace risk that needs to be managed by employers. The Health and Safety
at Work Act 2015 (HSWA) creates very broad obligations for businesses to manage the risks that
arise from work and workplaces. Workers and other Persons at workplaces also have duties to keep
themselves and others healthy and safe.

5. For a business that is responsible for work and workers, their primary duty of care requires them
to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and Safety of:

2564 19-20 In Confidence 2
