Remuneration for time away from work under employment law
13. If an employer requires an employee to stay away from work (in accordance with both Parties’
health and safety, or other, duties), then it is clear that the employer is liable to continue paying the
affected employee.
14. Employers should give consideration to whether an employee can work from home during self-
isolation for COVID-19. If the employee is able and willing to work from home, then time spent
away from work would be treated as ordinary working hours and not paid as leave.
15. The law provides for payment of leave where an employee is sick, as well as. options for paid leave
following public health advice to an individual that they should self-isolate. In general:
¢ Sick leave is available by law where a person or their dependant is sick or injured (and stress
due to concerns about COVID-19 may constitute illness in some cases)

¢ Anticipated sick leave can be used by agreement where the person has no current entitlement
(but would otherwise be eligible to use sick leave)

¢ Annual leave and anticipated annual leave can be used by agreement with both parties

¢ Anemployer can agree to Paid annual leave above entitlement (or e.g. some other form of
special leave if in contract)

e Unpaid leave can be used by agreement.

16. The law provides flexibility to account for other circumstances, where employers and employees
can agree arrangements together for time away from work and how this may be paid.

17. We have set out in Annex One an overview of the kind of guidance that could be given to
employers and workers in different indicative scenarios. We will develop this further in Partnership
with the NZCTU and BusinessNZ, for communication more widely by the end of the week.

Next steps

18. Officials are working to consolidate and clarify communications materials on how workers and
employers should manage workplace absences and Pay in the context of COVID-19. We are also
working with the Minister of Health on how health and safety at work law and employment law applies
to the health workforce in relation to COVID-19 issues.

19. We will provide initial advice On options to support employers and workers beyond the existing
employment law framework by Friday 6 March.
Annexes
Table One: How decisions on managing COVID 19-related risks are guided by health and safety duties
Table Two: Sick leave and annual holidays eligibility and minimum entitlements for various types of
employees/employment arrangements |
2564 19-20 In Confidence 4
