31. This will impose greater burden on MSD processing and likely delay other payments
and processing enhancements (e.g. automation) under the wage subsidy scheme. In
particular, the burden arises from essential businesses having to re-apply for the
subsidy every 4 weeks if their worker(s) continue to need to stay away from work.

32. MSD will prepare a declaration that asks employers to confirm that their employees
have advised they meet the eligibility criteria. MSD will use a process that includes
checking if there have been any previous applications and confirming certain
application details with Inland Revenue (such as the IR number and business name)
for checking information in the application. »

. Auditing will be undertaken, drawing on
information held by other agencies where feasible.

33. | We expect that this scheme may need to continue to operate beyOndsthe period of
the lockdown. We will advise you at a later point of the wind-dewn and/transition
plans.

34. IRD and MSD continue to work together to explore improyems)nts to the
administration of these schemes, as well as working together on automation and
audit.

Financial Implications

35. As with the original COVID-19 Leave scheme)there is a very high level of
uncertainty in this estimate due to unceftainty in the number of staff continuing to
work on the premises of essentiaksefvices, the proportion of these in high-risk
groups for COVID-19, and the finanWal position of essential services employers. The
Treasury has prepared cost models,for two scenarios:

35.1 Scenario 1: Full uptake ($280 million for 12 weeks)
35.2 Scenario 2: Less than full uptake ($100 million for 12 weeks)

36. Scenario 1: In_a full uptake case no Essential Business meet the eligibility criteria for
the wage subsidy, All Essential Businesses apply to the Essential Workers Leave
Support Scheme for affected staff.

37. | Scenario.2:/Jn a less than full uptake model 50 per cent of Essential Businesses
xperence a 30 per cent drop in revenue and are therefore eligible for the wage
subsidy and ineligible for the leave scheme. Then only 80 per cent of businesses
€ligible to apply for the Essential Workers Leave Support Scheme do apply for the
scheme.

38. In the absence of being able to accurately forecast the level of transmission of the
virus in the coming weeks, and the proportion of Essential Workers who are at higher
risk if they contract COVID-19, officials have instead applied the following
assumptions to both of the cost models:

38.1 Of the 370,000 staff currently working in Essential Services outside of the
public sector:
7
hx7z1 pfzj 2020-04-17 11:41:13
