IN CONFIDENCE

b) whether there is sufficient capacity and capability in the testing and contact tracing, with
surge capacity available in the case of an outbreak;

c) whether the self-isolation, quarantine and border measures are sufficiently robust and
adhered to;

d) whether there is capacity in the health system more generally, including the workforce and
ICU capacity (plus the availability of PPE for those for whom it is recommended);

e) the effects of the measures on economy and society more broadly;

f) public attitudes towards the measures and the extent to which people and businesses
understand, accept and abide by them.

8. The approach taken to how future decisions about changes to alert levels should reflect the
broader approach taken to decision-making to date. That is, a risk-based approach, which
applies judgement looking across a range of factors — health outcomes, health system
preparedness, economic and social impacts. This approach is more appropriate to a complex
situation such as COVID-19 than alternatives, such as quantitative cost-benefit analysis. A
cost-benefit style approach may not fully capture the dynamic nature of the information and
choices available at particular points in time. For instance, some options will become
unavailable (such as ‘going back’ to get health benefits, if economic benefits have been
prioritised).

9. A further key consideration not covered in these reports, but considered by Cabinet Business
Committee on 15 April, is the ability to operationalise the restrictions, including satisfactory
detailed implementation planning by the AOG team and government agencies. These matters
are covered in separate reports to Ministers.

10. The subsequent iterations of the weekly monitoring report will include new measures as they
are developed and as data becomes available. The measures will also be adapted to reflect
the phase in the development of COVID-19 and upcoming strategic questions.

11. This report focuses on the national situation. Officials have also provided advice on the
potential of de-escalating on a regional basis. At this stage, regional equivalents of the
indicators in this report are patchy, although data is available sub-regionally for the crucial
health domains (COVID-19 in New Zealand and health system preparedness) and some
economic aspects. It is likely that assessments of the remaining domains at a regional level
will have to rely on qualitative insights rather than data.

Page 3 of 7
IN CONFIDENCE
