IN CONFIDENCE

make family violence more likely (e.g. victims constantly being in the same space as abusers,

increased alcohol consumption, financial stress, limited space for men with anger

management plans to de-escalate) and limited opportunities to report harm.

28. Survey data suggests that, at a population level, there is no evidence of increasing rates of
depression and anxiety symptoms between the first and second weeks of lockdown. This
warrants ongoing monitoring given international evidence that self-isolation (especially if
prolonged) is associated with increased psychological distress.

29. Key issues raised by selected groups at risk include:

a) Disabled people and older people are reporting concerns about limited access to

information, disruption to services (including disruption due to limited access to PPE for
those providing personal care) and concerns about accessing food and other vital
supplies.
For disabled people, the need for accessible formats such as easy read translations, sign
language translations and formats for blind and low vision is an additional barrier to
information. A lack of access to respite support for carers of older people, and uncertainty
about recent changes to in-home supports, may make it harder for some older people to
live at home and this may increase demand for aged care facilities.

b) Maori and Pacific communities report pre-existing concerns made worse by the COVID-
19 situation, including poverty, disruption to seasonal employment, digital exclusion, and
increased family violence under Alert Level 4 restrictions. There are also reports of a
reluctance to seek testing for COVID-19 owing to fears about missing work while self-
isolating. Pacific people, like other migrant communities, are additionally disadvantaged
by language needs, which may limit their understanding of the situation and their ability to
seek support.

Public attitudes towards the measures and the extent to which people and businesses
understand, accept and abide by them

30. Independent surveys suggest there is broad buy-in to the Government’s response and strong
trust in Government. A significant proportion of people think lockdown should be extended.
The majority consider the measures imposed are about right but about a third think they do
not go far enough. This may indicate some appetite for measures to be strengthened if
necessary.

31. People generally appear to be complying with Level 4 restrictions. Measures of activity (light
vehicle traffic volumes, people movements as indicated by mobile phone location data) are
all greatly down from the pre-lockdown period and self-reported compliance is high.

32. However, results from polling combined with a large number of online breach reports suggest
concern in the community about whether others are adequately complying. This has the
potential to erode confidence in Alert Level 4 restrictions and compliance over time.

33. There is limited information about business plans and processes for essential workers, which
is a key area of transmission risk. There are an estimated 529,000 essential workers at
physical workplaces under Alert Level 4, and would be an estimated 1.1 million workers at
physical workplaces under Alert Level 3. MPI has been conducting onsite visits to check that
primary sector businesses have robust plans and processes in place. As of 9 April MPI had
completed 2,730 on-site verification visits and 2,401 remote verifications, resulting in 9

Page 6 of 7
IN CONFIDENCE
