IN CONFIDENCE
Purpose

1. This paper provides an initial version of the weekly monitoring report for discussion by the

COVID-19 Ministerial Group each Friday beginning on 24 April 2020.
Background

2. On Thursday 9 April, the COVID-19 Ministerial Group directed all-of-government (AOG)
officials to develop a set of measures and regular reporting that will inform future decisions on
changing Alert Levels or the overall strategy and to report them regularly [COVID 19 Ministers
9/04/2020 decision].

3. This paper provides an initial weekly monitoring report. It will COVID Ministers a view of the
relevant indicators so that Ministers can regularly discuss alert levels and other strategic
settings based on the best available evidence.

4. In addition, there will be a formal check in on the overall response strategy at least monthly.
This will draw on the measures in the weekly monitoring report, alongside other advice and
information. The first such assessment will be at Cabinet on 20 April.

Purpose of the COVID-19 Weekly Monitoring Report

5. The report provides:

a) Aconsistent set of measures most relevant to decisions around Alert Levels, or the overall
strategy. These will be primarily derived from other subject-specific daily and weekly
dashboards that Ministers receive, including health, economic and social dashboards.

b) Analysis and advice on those measures, including:

i) how New Zealand is tracking against the overall strategy;

ii) New Zealand’s position in respect of criteria for changes to alert levels or other
strategic settings; and

iii) areas of vulnerability, including risks to health, compliance and social licence, the
economy and social impacts.

6. This report was developed in collaboration across National Crisis Management Centre
(NCMC) functions and government agencies.

7. Together with a report being prepared by the Ministry of Health, which will include the very
latest public health data, this initial report is focussed on measures relating to the principal
matters that need to be taken into consideration in determining whether the government can
step down from Alert Level 4 in all or part of New Zealand. As set out in the decision by
COVID Ministers on 9 April, these include evidence and data relating to:

a) cases, tests and sources of transmission that aims to address whether there is undetected
community transmission;

Page 2 of 7
IN CONFIDENCE
