IN CONFIDENCE
Key insights from the COVID-19 Weekly Monitoring Report

12. The current strategy is to eliminate the virus from New Zealand. The requires that we keep it
out of the country with border restrictions and stamp it out wherever it occurs, minimise its
spread and severity with systematic public health measures (testing, contact tracing, isolation
and surveillance) supplemented by population-wide behaviour changes and social
restrictions.

COVID-19 cases and confidence in testing and sources of transmission

13. New case numbers appear to have flattened out over the past week. The time taken for cases
transmitted within New Zealand to double has slowed down. If there was uncontrolled spread
we would expect to see a doubling approximately every three days.

14. We have relatively few serious cases, and relatively low incidence of cases amongst the
particularly vulnerable elderly population. Analysis suggests that 2-3 weeks ago, there was
undetected community transmission, but we did not know how widespread this was.

15. Our high number of tests (see page on testing, tracing and health system capacity) and low
proportion of positive tests, together with the low number of hospital presentations,
increasingly suggests that there is not widespread community transmission of the virus at this
time in the areas where we have data, and that we have not had a large number of cases that
have not been tested. However, the Ministry of Health is now undertaking targeted over-
sampling in certain areas (both in known hotspots and areas that have tested fewest people)
to add further assurance to our data on cases ahead of a decision on whether to extend or
reduce Alert Level 4.

16. There are a number of gaps in the data we have used to prepare the report. In particular, a
significant number of cases have missing information and some others have been under
investigation for a long time. This somewhat reduces our confidence in the data on cases of
community transmission.

Capacity and capability in the testing and contact tracing

17. Our testing capacity is now over 6,000 symptomatic cases per day. As at 15 April, complete
test stock on hand in labs is 71,693, equating to approximately 26 days’ supply at current (7
day average) levels. We have moderate confidence in our testing regime. National testing
rates and capacity are good, but some regions and populations may be somewhat under-
represented. The average speed of the process needs to improve.

18. Our contact tracing capacity has been sharply increased to around 1,000 contacts per day
currently. The contact tracing centre is starting to see a reduction in the number of close
contacts (now to 2-3 close contacts per person). This is likely due to the lockdown, which
makes close contact tracing simpler. Additional pressures on capacity associated with greater
personal movement at Level 3 (and in time, Level 2) will need to be estimated and planned
for in order to provide assurance to move between Levels.

19. In addition to capacity, timeliness measures are critical to understanding the performance of
the testing and contact tracing systems. The Ministry of Health will very soon have data on
the time between symptom onset and self-isolation, and symptom onset and a test result. This
data will give us a much better insight into how effective our test-trace-isolate response will
be at controlling any new community transmission or outbreaks.

Page 4 of 7
IN CONFIDENCE
