IN CONFIDENCE
Adherence to self-isolation, quarantine and border measures

20. We have recently strengthened measures at the border to ensure all arrivals are quarantined
or placed in managed isolation for two weeks. The border is now closed to all but returning
New Zealanders, with minor and managed exceptions.

21. Any other suspected and confirmed COVID-19 cases, as well as close contacts of confirmed
cases, are meant to self-isolate. However, we currently have little understanding of
compliance with that self-isolation.

General health system capacity

22. Our health system is not currently under significant strain due to cases of COVID-19. Public
hospitals report only limited admissions or use of ICU beds due to COVID-19, suggesting
there remains headroom to deal with a potential surge in cases. However, there are wider
issues affecting the financial sustainability of primary and community-based services, in
particular for those areas which have been required to move away from face-to-face models
of care or which have constrained access (and, therefore, reduced payments which are based
on activity). Moreover, there is a substantial risk that the effect of Alert Level 4 has been to
create latent demand for health services which may translate into actual demand at a lower
Alert Level (e.g. elective surgery or services which have been deliberately postponed to
manage pressures; and individual choices of patients to delay appointments owing to
restrictions on movement). The Ministry of Health is seeking to further model these wider
capacity issues and incorporate regular monitoring on impact into health system dashboards.

Economic impacts of measures

23. Latest data confirm a very large fall in a range of economic activity measures. Road and
airport traffic, energy usage and discretionary retail spending are all well down, and consumer
and business sentiment continue to decline. Businesses across every sector have slashed
expectations to employ and invest. Large numbers of businesses have applied for the wage
subsidies, and Jobseeker benefit numbers have sharply increased. As global and domestic
economic conditions have weakened, the New Zealand dollar exchange rate has fallen, but
recently stabilised.

24. How the economy performs from here will depend on how movement restrictions evolve,
global demand conditions and household and firm behaviour under different alert level
settings. China is slowly recovering, which is promising for the NZ primary sector in particular,
but weaker export demand and softer prices remain likely in the short term.

25. Treasury’s modelling of economic scenarios shows potential falls in annual GDP for the year
to March 2021 from 13% in the least restrictive scenarios considered (a relatively short period
at Alert Levels 3 or 4), to closer to one third in a scenario that involves tight restrictions
throughout the year. Peaks in the unemployment rate vary from around 13% to 26%.

Social impacts and resilience

26. There is clear evidence of significant impacts on New Zealander’s material wellbeing —
including increased demand for special needs grants, calls to financial crisis support lines,
and loss of income since the start of level four restrictions.

27. The number of police family harm investigations appears to have returned to pre-lockdown
levels, after a marked increase during week one of lockdown. Numbers are being closely
monitored as there is widespread concern about level four restrictions creating conditions that

Page 5 of 7
IN CONFIDENCE
