IN CONFIDENCE
.
Noting paper:
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From John Ombler, All of Government Date 10/03/2020
Controller

Purpose

1. This paper outlines emerging critical policy issues that Ministers will need to make decisions
on and notes the operational areas of focus for responding on COVID-19 and emerging
pressures on government agencies.

The response to date has helped us for the challenges ahead

2. Government agencies are co-ordinating to contain the outbreak and impacts of COVID-19 on
New Zealand. This combined response effort over the past weeks has helped us for the
challenges ahead.

3. We know more about the virus and how it spreads. We now understand the genetic make-up
of the disease, the source of the virus and how it progresses. Among many other things, we
better understand the disease’s incubation period, its transmissibility, the main means of
transition, and age-specific risk of the disease.

4. We have taken concrete steps to contain the spread of the virus. New Zealand has had
temporary border measures in place since the 2" February. Contact tracing and isolation
measures are intensifying. We have it in place for all five confirmed cases and their close
contacts. This is progressing well.

5. We know that timely public information from all parts of government and civil society will be
critical in minimising the impacts. We have increased our public communications and put
place a National Public Information Management team (refer accompanying Noting Paper).

6. Preparation is well underway for a more severe outbreak (see Annex One which outlines the
current areas of operational focus). The Ministry of Health is working with the health sector
to identify resources that can be surged to areas of need within the health sector and planning
for the potential activation of community assessment centres.

Key upcoming decision points for Ministers

7. There are some key choices that we may need to make as the outbreak unfolds

8. Some of these policy choices will require trade-offs in order to manage competing demands.

9. The New Zealand Influenza Pandemic Plan has five phases: keep it out; stamp it out; manage
it; manage it (post-peak); and recover from it. As new phases are entered into decisions will
need to account for different situations in different parts of the country.

Page 1 of 6
IN CONFIDENCE
