IN CONFIDENCE
AmnexOme
Border Temporary travel restrictions are active for mainland China and Iran. These are under constant
review.
Operational efforts at the border are also focussed on supporting efforts to manage arrivals from
points of departure subject to border measures will, currently these remain as:
. Category 1A: mainland China and Iran
* Category 1B: Northern Italy and the Republic of Korea
. Category 2: Hong Kong, Italy (other areas), Japan, Singapore, and Thailand
Border agencies have been engaged in updating processes to reflect the change in status for
COVID-19 to a quarantinable disease.
Early warnings to border staff around tracing infected passengers and supporting their
engagement with potentially infected passengers is ongoing and remains critical.
Cruise ships (and maritime controls) continue to consume significant attention. Cabinet has
agreed (9 March) to make available new powers to detain vessels
Health The main focus is on “keeping it out” and slowing it down. This includes applying immediate
containment measures for confirmed cases, including contact tracing and contact management.
Other key areas of operational focus are —
«Preparing primary care and DHBs for possible widespread community transmission.
Planning is underway for community assessment centres, where appropriate.
* Actively working with health sector to identify resources to surge to areas of need within
sector
e  Anactive public health campaign to promote basic hygiene messages and for the public
to seek phone advice first if they feel unwell. Telehealth services are receiving large
numbers of calls.
Infrastructure | MBIE is working with lifeline infrastructure services (e.g. energy, telecommunications) to ensure
they are prepared and ready.
To support continuation of critical government services, an ODESC forum on business continuity
planning is being held this week.
Economic Further design work on options for targeted wage subsidies, worker redeployment, and potential
tax relief is the main focus.
A number of initiatives to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on affected sectors and regions have
been announced and economic agencies are focussed on implementation. This includes initial
funding of $11.0 million for tourism marketing, and $4m to augment the Regional Business
Partner Programme.
All economic agencies are working with their sector to understand impacts and share
information.
Welfare Welfare agencies are looking at how to remove the stand-down period for beneficiaries and
identifying other potential welfare support.
An emerging issue is provision of shelter, accommodation and households goods. There is a
small but growing number of people in self-isolation that require assistance.
Page 4 of 6
IN CONFIDENCE
