IN CONFIDENCE
Annex 2
COVID-19 response: examples of emerging impact on state sector agencies
Border sector agencies have committed over 100 dedicated staff to support the response. In addition to this,
operational staff (visa processing, border operations) are all supporting border restrictions and health screening
processes (which impacts over 1000 staff in some shape or form). S6(C)!
At Ministry of Health the National Health Coordination Centre (NHCC) has been stood up for two months and
approximately 70 staff are currently redeployed to work across this response team. The team are working extended
hours and seven days a week so the staff numbers extend well beyond 70 full time equivalents. The NHCC is.
actively scaling up with more redeployment of Ministry staff into an expanded response team as we more into the
next phase of the response. There will a doubling of the resource in the next few weeks to approximately 140 people
deployed to support the Ministry's response activity. There are also an estimated 30-50 staff actively supporting the
response activity with wider policy activity, provisioning of IT services and other support activity. By the end of
March it is likely there will be approx 200 Ministry of Health staff focused on COVID-19 response activity.
The Ministry is currently reviewing its work programme and identifying activity that can be deferred or paused.
The Ministry's staffing shifts reflect only one part of the wider health response. There is a significant increase in
resourcing in the wider health sector including the National Health service (Health Line), major deployment of staff
in Public Health Units and DHB's and increased Laboratory capacity. Further work is underway to understand the
cost and impact of this additional health sector activity.
Approximately 37% of staff at NEMA (29 people) have been diverted to COVID-19 work. This is expected to
increase. NEMA has had to stop work on the National Planning and Recovery team work programmes.
At MBIE, approximately 65 people have now been diverted specifically onto COVID-19 response work, which is
resulting in some deferral of key work programmes. For example, work on the Holidays Act review and immigration
policy priorities will be delayed. Legal resource is being diverted on to issues such as pay and leave, which is
beginning to impact on the pace of key legislative reform (e.g. the Equal Pay Amendment Bill).
A similar number (circa 65) have been diverted from Immigration NZ business-as-usual activity to the COVID-19
response. Additionally, there has been the need to reprioritise some operational activity given the significant
increase in call volumes to service centres (for example, the Immigration Contact Centre has received an average
of 2000 COVID-19 related calls per week since 2 Feb 2020).
At Treasury, there is about 15 people working full-time on the response and another 20 full-time equivalents spread
around the organisation. Work is being deprioritised across a range of areas, including on the Economic Plan, APEC
2021 preparations, working with other agencies on key programmes such as climate change, health and welfare
reform, the tax policy wok programme and work on macroeconomic resilience.
Page 6 of 6
IN CONFIDENCE
