26 Extending the existing welfare programme, rather than establishing a separate one,
will mitigate the operational impacts because it means that existing systems and
processes can be used.

27 This approach is efficient from a regulatory perspective. This is because changes have
already been made to other legislative instruments in order to exempt the existing
welfare programme from being treated as income for Temporary Additional Support
and Special Benefit. Without those changes, there would be an unintended circular
flow between the transitional assistance and those hardship payments.

28 The attached Income Support Package (Transitional Assistance) Amendment 2020,
once it is signed, will come into force on the day after the date it is signed. It will
amend the Income Support Package (Transitional Assistance) Programme consistent
with the Cabinet decision described at paragraph 24.

29 The amendments will ensure that assistance is available for people who experience a
reduction of Childcare Assistance or Temporary Additional Support and whose total
social assistance payments are less than what they would be immediately prior to the
introduction of the Income Support Package and COVID-19 Recovery Package.

30 The programme includes provisions to ensure that the assistance is also available for
recipients of special assistance provided under the Christchurch Mosques Attack
Welfare Programme (ie a payment equivalent to Temporary Additional Support) if they
would otherwise meet the requirements.

31 People who receive non-beneficiary Accommodation Supplement are not included in
the programme as the financial disadvantage that they experience due to flow-on
effects to the AS entry threshold and the abatement threshold are intended impacts
[REP-19/11/1083 refers]. This ensures assistance is appropriately targeted based on
income and housing costs. This also reflects an implicit assumption that the incomes of
those in work are likely to increase each year, so people are likely to be better off
overall after any wage increases.

32 The following table summarises the estimated client impacts:

a Temporary Non-beneficiary
Scenario Measure of client impact a Additional Accommodation
Assistance
Support Supplement
19 Recovery ;
Recovery Package
between the

33 The WEP, including changes introduced as part of the COVID-19 Recovery Package,
does not affect entitlement to assistance under the welfare programme.

34 A waiver to the 28-day rule is sought on the grounds that the amendments to the
welfare programme confers only benefits for those affected by them. Without the
amendments, the unintentional financial disadvantage from the COVID-19 Recovery
Package will not be avoided.

35 Although you have authority to approve amendments to the welfare programme,
Cabinet approval is required to use the existing funding appropriation for this purpose.
The Cabinet paper therefore seeks approval for funding to be met from the existing
Transitional Assistance appropriation as there is sufficient funding available.

Regulatory changes for the COVID-19 Recovery Package and other remedial matters 6
