IN CONFIDENCE
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From John Ombler, All-of-Government Date 25/03/2020
Controller

Purpose

1. This paper provides a framework for online ordering and the provision of essential retail goods
during Alert Level 4 for agreement. This framework outlines the conditions retailers will need
to meet for the public be allowed to order essential retail goods on-line. It also notes an issue
that has been raised through the helpline related to the delivery of household effects in transit.

Comment

Ordering of Essential Goods On-line for Delivery during Alert level 4

2. While New Zealand is at Alert Level 4, it is likely that people will need to buy retail goods that
are essential to safely isolate, work from home, and continue studying over the four-week
period.

3. These are goods which are vital to ensure households can continue to function while we are
at Alert Level 4. Examples include: blankets, fridges, heaters and computers / tablets to work
from home, or do distance learning. Failure to be able to purchase these could have public
health impacts. For example a broken fridge during this period would mean people venturing
out of their homes more often to purchase fresh food, which is something we want to limit.
Devices are also key to ensuring people remain socially connected even if they are physically
separate.

4. Officials recommend that people be allowed to order only essential retail goods subject to the
following conditions:

a. Retailers should take orders online or by phone. They should not have open storefronts,
and the public should not be able to visit stores to select goods.

b. Retailers should only take orders for essential retail goods

c. Retailers should fulfil orders while taking all appropriate public health measures (e.g.
physical distancing, PPE for staff).

d. Retailers should deliver orders in a contactless manner (i.e. no physical interaction
between deliverer and customer).

5. If retailers cannot meet any of the above conditions, they should not offer to sell essential
retail goods while the country is at Alert Level 4. Retailers who choose to take orders for
essential retail goods online are responsible for managing compliance with the conditions
listed above. This includes ensuring only those goods which are vital to ensure households

Page 1 of 2
IN CONFIDENCE
