Rationale for strengthening border measures

i) This advice has been jointly prepared and agreed by the following Governm
agencies: MBIE, MFAT, MOH, NZ Customs Service and the Treasury. MOT
also consulted.

Public health in New Zealand

a In the week since the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a glob
pandemic, the number of countries with widespread or community transmiss
has rapidly increased. Consequently, there is increased risk of importation o
COVID-19 to New Zealand.

fs) We have seen multiple new confirmed cases to date, with limited person-to-
person transmission. New Zealand is still in the window of opportunity to con
COVID-19 if we can slow its importation.

6 The case to move hard and early is predicated on public health grounds and
precautionary principle: that the risk of importing further cases and risking
exponential growth can be deferred and, through rapid action, managed dow
over a very short period.

7 Over the last week, as outbreaks have worsened in many countries around
world, it has become clear that to have the best chance of avoiding a similar
situation in New Zealand:

7.1 The most important things we can do to slow and contain the spread
COVID-19 are testing, contact tracing and self-isolation, in addition to
reducing its importation.

7.2 These measures require near-universal compliance at large scale and
widespread public buy-in to be effective.

7.3 People living in New Zealand will require significant levels of governm
support to successfully self-isolate.

If we continue to allow people to enter New Zealand who do not have a real

prospect of self-isolation or who cannot return home easily, there will be a

significant call on resources to either support them or enforce compliance.

Temporary visitors, transit and working holiday visa holders do not have a

realistic prospect of self-isolation because their purpose for travelling to New

Zealand is inherently contrary to self-isolation (eg short-term travel for touris

In addition, other temporary visa holders (eg students) are likely to be strand

New Zealand as flights close.

Over the last few days, we have seen multiple instances of non-compliance

visitors in particular. There have been increasing and credible reports from t

hospitality, accommodation and conservation sectors that visitors are not

complying with self-isolation requirements, and have no intention of doing so

Existing phone lines are receiving a growing volume of calls reporting non-

compliance by people perceived to be visitors. Spot checks by Police since 17
