< However, if further travel restrictions are introduced immediately, it is unclea
whether there will be enough demand to maintain the reduced services Air N
Zealand (and other carriers) have already announced for the next few days
bring people home. Airlines may possibly reduce services earlier than curren
planned, which may not help with repatriation of New Zealanders overseas a
foreign nationals here.

Timing and communications

10) Any decision you make to change categorisations before 1700 hours on
Thursday, 19 March 2020 could come into effect from 2359 hours on Thursd
19 March 2020 (all times in NZDT).

oe In addition to the standard operating procedures for notifying foreign
governments and airlines ahead of an announcement, there will need to be
and strong public messages:

31.1. The border remains open for returning New Zealanders and most peo
with residence class visas.

31.2 Temporary visa holders are now banned from entering New Zealand.

31.3 New Zealand citizens and most residence class visa holders oversea
should return now while flights remain available.

31.4 Foreign nationals temporarily in New Zealand should leave now, so t
they are able to return home.

31.5 People living in New Zealand should avoid all overseas travel.

31.6 These measures are necessary to protect public health in New Zealand,
but temporary. They will be reviewed every 14 days.

ys We recommend aligning these measures with the normal expiry and renewa
cycle of all border measures. This means they would expire at 2359 hours
(NZDT) on Tuesday, 31 March 2020. Advice will be provided to Cabinet on
whether to continue them, in whole or in part.

33 Even in just 30 days’ time, the situation is likely to have worsened in the rest of
the world. Ministers may need to be ready to start lifting border measures at that
time, on the basis that New Zealand is as ready as it can be. Continuing beyond
that point could increase economic hardship in New Zealand, without
commensurate public health benefits. Further advice will be provided to Cabinet
on a pathway to reopening New Zealand’s borders over time.
