March 2020 have also revealed that recent arrivals to New Zealand do not h
a clear understanding of self-isolation requirements.

10 Media coverage of these developments undermines public confidence in ou
border measures. It also threatens self-isolation as a viable strategy, given w
are simultaneously ramping up public messaging about the importance and
effectiveness of self-isolation. While steps have been taken to monitor and
enforce self-isolation since the changes of 16 March 2020, this is a poor use
resources and counteracts our precautionary approach to transmission.

| For temporary visa holders who do not comply with self-isolation requiremen
there is the option of making them liable for deportation. However, they have
14-day right to give good reasons as to why they shouldn't be deported (alth
this may not apply if they have been determined as an excluded person), an
days to lodge an appeal, and if they do, the time it takes for the appeal to be
considered by the Immigration and Protection Tribunal. This means if strong
enforcement action is needed, by the time deportation can be carried out, it
unlikely there will be suitable flights available, other than those being operat
Air New Zealand.

V4 The main reason working holiday visa holders are in New Zealand is tourism
with work rights as a supplementary component of the visa. The risk profile f
these travellers is similar to visitor visa holders: they typically do not have fix
accommodation and are likely to be moving around the country. We expect t
see softening labour demand in the sectors where working holiday visa hold
typically work. This will be compounded by a large number of temporary wor
visa holders who are likely to shortly be stranded in New Zealand, as well as
New Zealanders needing redeployment to other work.

13 Transit is still available for passengers arriving in New Zealand, remaining
airside, and then travelling onwards to a third country. They currently do not need
to self-isolate because they do not enter New Zealand, and do not pose any
higher risk while airside than other travellers arriving on the same flight (if no
unwell).

are While are benefits to keeping transit open for continued air route capacity, w
could help more New Zealanders overseas to return home, there is a high ri
transit passengers becoming stranded in New Zealand if their onward travel
blocked while they are already en route to New Zealand. Overnight, it is clea
that many countries are now closing their borders to transiting passengers, w
has raised the risk of passengers being stranded in New Zealand.

15 There is a large number of people in New Zealand on visitor visas, many of
whom are tourists. There are around 80,000 New Zealanders temporarily
overseas and a further 800,000 we believe reside permanently overseas. The
message to all of these should be that they need to return to their home countrie
as soon as possible, while flights are still available.
