Options for classification of COVID-19 under The Health Act

1956

The table below describes the differences between classifying ‘novel coronavirus capable of causing

serious respiratory illness’ such as COVID-19 as either:

1. a notifiable infections disease (Under Schedule 1 of the Health Act - approved on 28 January

2020)

2. as an infectious and quarantinable disease (Under Part 3 of Schedule 1 of the Health Act).
Making COVID-19 a quarantinable disease requires an Order in Council to add it to Part 3 of Schedule
1 of the Health Act. This would engage the powers in Part 4 of the Act, authorising quarantine of
ships, aircraft and associated travellers coming into New Zealand where there are grounds to believe
there may be cases of COVID-19 on board.

NOTIFIABLE QUARANTINABLE
(as approved on 28 January 2020) (for further consideration)

The following powers are enacted: The following powers are enacted:

1. Medical officers of health may enter 1. Medical officer of health or health protection
premises to examine any person if they have officer may detain aircraft or ship if reason to
reason to believe disease present. believe a passenger has a quarantinable

2. Director-General of Health may order a post- disease (if a passenger has died or become
mortem examination if cause of death may ill on the voyage).
be notifiable disease. 2. Medical officer of health may examine any

3. Medical officers of health have wide powers person arriving in New Zealand reasonably
to issue directions to persons reasonably believed to have a quarantinable disease.
believed to pose a health risk, due to 3. Medical officer of health or health protection
notifiable diseases. They can direct people to may require captain of ship or aircraft to take
take or refrain from taking particular actions, reasonable steps to limit the spread of
which could include remaining in a particular infection.
place, refraining from a particular activity(€g | 4. Medical officer of health may detain a person
taking public transport). arriving in New Zealand and reasonably

* The power extends to people who are suspected to have a quarantinable disease.
infected, who have been in contact They may be detained for up to 28 days to
with an infected person, or who the allow examination or to prevent them
officer reasonably believes may be infecting others. The person may be kept
infected. under surveillance at large if they undertake

+ This is a wide power, but cannot be to report to a doctor at required times and
used to require a person to accept places.
treatment. Force may not be used to 5. The Prime Minister may issue an epidemic
enforce a direction. notice relating to a quarantinable disease

a j id only a quarantinable disease). An

+ The District Court may issue an order, (an ie z z
covering the same ground as a eoremic ne grate soe officers “
direction from the medical officer of a mee" ws id ROWERS: = ‘ oo SS
health. Non-compliance carries larger a. Prohibit public gatherings or close
penalties, including imprisonment, areas or buildings
and compliance may be secured using b. Quarantine or isolate any person,
force, including with the assistance of animal or aircraft
Police. Such an order cannot compel cae .
someone to accept treatment. c. Requisition any item to be usedto

treat patients.

As a notifiable disease the following actions | As a quarantinable disease the following

are mandatory: actions are mandatory:

* Health practitioners and medical laboratories | * Medical officer of health or health protection
must notify medical officer of health if they officer must not grant pratique (health
identify a case of a notifiable disease. clearance) until satisfied that no novel

*  Occupiers of premises and captains of ships coronavirus exists aboard aircraft or ship.
must notify the local authority or the medical Craft may not move, and no one and no
officer of health if they suspect a notifiable thing may leave until pratique (health
disease. clearance) granted.

3 March 2020
8t605jj9dp 2020-04-20 12:31:22
