Page 5 of 5

COVID-19: Options for returning New Zealanders to New Zealand

7. In situations where there are a significant number of New Zealanders with no
commercial options available, and the assisted departure criteria applies, we could
consider charter flights. The preferred option for a charter operator would be Air
New Zealand, but depending on variables such as location and number of
passengers, other commercial operators may be considered.

8. The geographic areas with concentrations of New Zealanders that have been
identified as immediate gaps due to no commercial routes being available are Latin
America (Buenos Aires), India, |s6(a) Discussion with

59(2)(b)(i), 89(2)G) |including from an operations perspective, have indicated that an evacuation
flight from Buenos Aires may be a good first charter option. Other countries are
looking at evacuating their citizens from South America.

9. While Buenos Aires (Ezeiza) airport is operational, the available commercial
options are limited. Air NZ have withdrawn their service |s6(a)|

10. We recommend that we begin to work with to explore feasibility of this
charter flight. This will include:

a. assessing the number of New Zealanders in Argentina and across the region
requesting to be evacuated;

b. restrictions on travel around the region that would need to be negotiated for
New Zealanders to get to the departure point;

c. the option to work with the Argentinian Embassy to repatriate Argentinians
stranded in New Zealand;

d. using the charter for freight transport; and

e. the option to work with Australia on a joint assisted departure.

11.We are aware that there are a number of New Zealanders (around 36) on cruise
Ships in, or arriving shortly into Buenos Aires. [s6(a)

12.NZDF options have been considered and are recommended as a back-up only due
to a number of factors. These include limited flight range (flights are challenging
beyond Australia and the Pacific) which are currently serviced by commercial
options, availability and capacity of NZDF aircraft.

13.In addition, NZDF aircraft are currently being used on S9(2)(G)(i) tasking for
transporting health related supplies (e.g. facemasks and PPE equipment). This
means that any additional tasking to NZDF requires National Crisis Management
Centre (NCMC) prioritisation.
