MINISTRY OF
et ewsl
MANATU HAUORA
Our assessment against the high-level review criteria is:
Factors for consideration for border measures review
High-level Factors for consideration Indicate if there has been a Overall comment
considerations NB theceactordnavelnotbeentwetgntediog change in this factor since the
ae last assessment
prioritised
Appropriate guidance documents and management | There is guidance available on the | The overall status of readiness of New
processes available for the health system Ministry of Health website for the | Zealand's health system to respond is
health sector and the general good. The DHBs have been asked to
public. Regular border advisories provide response plans to the Ministry.
are being issued and protocols for There are travel restrictions in place for
the management of the first case . .
. travellers from mainland China and Iran.
and subsequent cases in New . .
land h b developed Travellers returning from China, Iran,
Zealand have een develope LA Northern Italy and the Republic of Korea
i COVID-19 Strategic Response Plan should self-isolate for 14 days. Travellers
Readiness of New is currently being developed. ; ye
Zealand’s health from other countries or areas with
system to respond | scenario planning for potential impact on New There has been no change. suspected or confirmed sustained
to cases and/or Zealand's health system transmission are asked who develop
outbreak symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of
Current response aims (e.g. stage of NZIPAP) No Indicative health sector alert breath should seek medical advice.
code has been issued. NZ The Ministry's Chief Medical Officer has
preparedness measures are engaged widely with clinical colleagues in
currently being guided by the the sector to identify issues, which are
‘Keep it Out” phases of the NZIPP. | being managed actively.
Acceptability and feasibility of current measures for | There has been an increased
key stakeholders concern regarding international
students and whether an
