Cabinet has agreed to a new condition on temporary visas

1. On 16 March 2020, Cabinet agreed that a condition be added to temporary entry class
visas. All visa holders subject to the condition must comply with instructions from a
Medical Officer of Health which relate to a notifiable or quarantinable disease [CAB-20-
MIN-0112]. Your subsequent certification of Immigration Instructions [2750 19-20]
brought Cabinet's decision into force on 18 March 2020.

2. While the new visa condition does not specifically require a person to self-isolate, people
arriving in New Zealand are being asked to self-isolate. If they choose to not self-isolate,
a Medical Officer of Health may then require the person to isolate or quarantine
themselves under the Health Act 1956. Temporary visa holders who are subject to the
new condition are in breach of it if they refuse.

3. The new visa condition is now being imposed on all new temporary entryclass visas.
That includes people who arrive in New Zealand as visa-waiver travellérssas, well as
people who apply for and are granted a temporary visa from 18 March 2020:

Visa holders may be made liable for deportation/but it is easier to
deport temporary visa holders than residents. :

4. Both temporary and resident visa holders can bemmade/liable for deportation if they
commit crimes, have procured their visas byfraud, or breach visa conditions. Temporary
visa holders in New Zealand can be made liable*for'deportation “for cause”, under
section 157 of the Immigration Act 2009. In thisycase, the Minister of immigration or an
immigration officer may determine that there is “sufficient reason” to deport them.

5. A sufficient reason can include a breach’ef the person's visa conditions. Where
temporary visa holders who are subject,to the new conditions have not complied with an
instruction from a Medica! Officer of Health, they would be in breach of their visa
conditions.

6. There are a range of other grounds under which temporary visa holders can be made
liable for deportation: In addition to the “standard” character obligations (to not commit a
crime or be a riskito publieorder for example), temporary visa holders can be determined
to not meet their existing visa conditions for other matters relating to character. This
could, for exdmple, félate to the case of a temporary visa holder who arrives at the New
Zealand border orwho is in New Zealand, who, although not subject to the new
condition, refuses to comply with the instruction of a Medical Officer of Health made
pursuant to section 70 of the Health Act 1956.

7. Ajperson who is made liable for deportation under section 157 has 14 days from the date
of the service of a deportation liability notice to give good reason why any deportation
should not proceed. They also have the right to appeal within 28 days of the service of a
deportation liability notice, on humanitarian grounds only, to the Immigration and
Protection Tribunal against deportation.

Some border arrivals are granted resident visas

8. Cabinet also directed officials to report to you with regard to the implications of adding a
similar condition to resident visas [CAB-20-MIN-0112]. As you are aware, there could be
unintended consequences if a blanket condition were added to all new resident visas. In
particular, residents with conditions on their visas cannot apply for citizenship and may

2743 19-20 In Confidence 3
