a. Australian citizens and residents who did not hold permanent resident visas would
hold the conditions for three months immediately post each arrival in New Zealand

b. applicants for resident visas who were not Australian citizens and who were offshore
when their resident visa was granted would be subject to the condition for the first
three months after their first arrival in New Zealand as a resident visa holder

¢. applicants for resident visas who were not Australian citizens and who were onshore
when their resident visa was granted would be subject to the condition for the first
three months after their resident visa was granted

16. A breach of the condition would mean that a resident visa holder could be made liable for
deportation. They would have period of 28 days during which they could appeal that
liability. As with temporary visa holders, an individual who was fiable for deportation, due
to a breach of the proposed condition arising from non-compliance with an instruction
from a Medical Officer of Health relating to a notifiable or quarantinable diséase, could be
detained under Health powers or Immigration powers

17. In terms of timing, the change to conditions would apply to resident.visas approved from
applications made after the new Instructions came into force. This means that they
would impact on applications made at the border immediately...In most Cases they are
not likely to apply to resident visa approvals until 2021.

18. As this is primarily focused on border arrivals of non-resident Atistralians, and to
minimise the ongoing impact on ordinarily-resident Australians, we recommend that you
agree that Cabinet will asked to remove this resident visa condition once the current
COVID-19 situation is over.

Next steps ~

149. This work may be overtaken by events. Ifyou wish to progress it, you could direct
officials to upload the attached paper, with any amendments as directed, for
consideration by Cabinet on Monday 23 March 2020.

20. In that case, the changes Gould come into effect next week. The current border
messaging is generitgbutchanges would need to be made to Customs’ scripts.

21. The Ministry of Féreign Affairs and Trade has indicated that support for the proposals,
but noted that,it would)be useful to be able to brief Australian diplomatic contacts prior to
public annoincements being made.

Annex (QJ

Annex one; Draft Cabinet paper

2743 19-20 In Confidence 5
