not sponsor some family members. In addition, the Immigration Act 2009 does not allow
a condition to be added to a permanent resident visa.

9. Many resident visas are granted in respect of an application accompanied by a fee and
considered by an Immigration Officer against the criteria of one of a range of residence
categories. Applicants then granted a residence class visa, whether on or offshore, do
not apply for a further visa at the border. They apply for entry permission, as do all other
non-citizens, which they must be granted."

10. However, as an acknowledgement of the special relationship between New Zealand and
Australia, most Australian citizens and permanent residents? travel visa waiver? to New
Zealand and apply for and are granted a resident visa on arrival. Those visas expire on
departure from New Zealand.

11. Many Australian citizens who make their home in New Zealand do so long term on this
basis, although they, along with other resident visa holders, may apply for and be
granted a permanent resident visa after two years of residence, and citizenship after five
years. However, the majority of resident visas granted to Australiameitizens are granted
to people who are not intending to make their home in New Zealandybut who are here to
holiday, visit family and friends, or do business — that is, for visitor reasons.

12. People granted resident visas are not subject to the new'visajConditions. Australian
citizens and permanent residents of Australia who are,not Normally resident in
New Zealand may have more difficulty in meeting a self-isolation requirement than those
who do have a home here, and there has already beenan example of an individual
stating that he does not intend to comply. AS he holds.a resident visa, he cannot be
made liable for deportation under section 157°

43. In general it is more difficult to make a resident visa holder liable for deportation than a
temporary visa holder. This makéS\sénse, as in most cases both New Zealand and the
resident have established commitments to each other. However, it introduces an
anomaly in the treatment of Australians ‘who do not actually live here.

Cabinet could add a.condition to resident visas

14. We have considered,the,implications of adding a condition to resident visas that similarly
requires the holder to comply with instructions from a Medical Officer of Health which
relate to a notifiable.or quarantinable disease. Officials identified two major criteria
against which options were assessed:

a. minimis@unintended or disproportionate consequences on approved applicants for
fésidence, including Australians who are ordinarily resident in New Zealand
6) efsure that messaging is clear, including at the border
45/0On this basis, you could recommend to Cabinet that resident visa Instructions be
amended to add a time-limited (three-month) condition to new resident visas granted at
the border and to applicants for resident visas. This would work as follows:
1 Unless they were granted a resident visa offshore and this is their first travel to New Zealand holding that
visa.
2 Some individuals will not qualify for this, typically because they do not meet New Zealand's character
requirements.
3 Unlike other visa waiver nationals, Australian citizens are not required to hold an Electronic Travel
Authority as a condition of their visa waiver.
2743 19-20 In Confidence 4
