evidence. This scrutiny is an important part of supporting the harm minimisation
objectives of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act.

31. The processing of applications for new alcohol licences will be potentially
delayed across the country for weeks or months due to the proposed
modification. However, steps can be taken to help ensure that existing
licensees will still be able to trade and work in the alcohol industry post-
epidemic. The Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act provides that when licensees
apply to their DLC to renew their licence, their licence is prevented from
expiring. My officials are working on providing guidance for DLCs to encouffage
them to contact those whose licences are expiring, and make those people
aware of the need to apply for a renewal before their licence expires¢

Legislative and financial implications

32. The proposals would modify primary legislation, for the period”njwhich the
—_ Notice issued under section 5 of the — Act is in force. aa

33. There are no financial implications for the Grownrésulting from the proposals in
this paper.

Impact analysis

34. The Treasury has determined thattthis is a direct Covid-19 response and has
suspended the RIA requirements‘in accordance with CAB-20-MIN-0138.

Population implications

Maori

35. In the context of COWID-79, AVL and other remote ways of connecting
decrease the risk of virus transmission and associated health complications.
The health benefits.of remote ways of connecting may also be more
pronounced for Maori, who are more likely to have underlying health conditions*
that ineréaseythe risk of complications if they contract the COVID-19 virus.

36_Howeverpthose with limited access to the internet or AVL technology are
disproportionately likely to live in rural and isolated areas, have limited financial
resources, or be elderly. These barriers may disproportionately affect Maori, as
in some areas with high Maori populations, there has historically been limited
access to the internet or technology.

Older people

37. Older people are likely to be less mobile and more susceptible to complications
from COVID-19, and therefore benefit from remote ways of connecting. The
realisation of these benefits may be limited as older people are likely to have
more difficulty accessing the necessary technology.

4 See, for example, Wai 2575: Maori Health Trends Report, 2019, Wellington, Ministry of Health.

Page 6 of 10
