MINISTRY OF
ie euvew el

11. Italy: the vast majority of cases (almost 98 percent) continue to be concentrated in the
northern provinces of Lombardy (615), Veneto (191) and Emilia-Romagna (217). The
remaining cases were recorded in Liguria (42), Piedmont (11), Tuscany (11), Marche (11),
Lazio (6), Sicily (4), Campania (13), Puglia (3), and Abruzzo (2) and one each in Calabria
and the autonomous region of Bolzano. The new cases in Campania include nine in
Naples.

12: While both countries have implemented significant measures to contain the outbreaks
and prevent further spread, it will take another one to two weeks to see how successful
those measures have been.

Approach in other countries and jurisdictions

13:

The Australian Government subsequently decided on 29 February 2020 to
extend the current travel restrictions in place for people travelling from China to
include people travelling from Iran (so in line with New Zealand's approach). Only
people who have travelled from or through China and Iran are required to self-isolate
(for 14 days) at this point in time.

14. The United Kingdom (UK) also uses two categories to determine measures to apply to
travellers and visitors to the UK. While the UK doesn’t have any border travel
restrictions in place, of note is that its Category 1 countries and places are (as at 29
February 2020):

e@ Wuhan and Hubei province (China)
e tran
e Daegu or Cheongdo (Republic of Korea)
¢ Italian towns under containment measures.
People travelling to the UK from these places should self-isolate, even if asymptomatic,
and inform NHS111 (Healthline equivalent) of recent travel.

Likely risk that individuals travelling to New Zealand from areas of concern are incubating COVID-19

15: As noted in previous advice to inform decisions about possible exemptions for students
from China from current travel restrictions, the risk that an individual who has been in a
place of concern has been exposed to COVID-19 and is now incubating the disease is
very low. This is reinforced by the experience with people who have returned to New
Zealand from China over recent weeks, including those evacuated from Wuhan (the
‘epicentre’ of the outbreak in China), and from the Diamond Princess (who are still in
quarantine). None of these people have developed symptoms of COVID-19.

Health Report: 20200334 4
