IN-CONFIDENCE-
Process for you to declare a National State of Emergency and required
communication

18. You legally will need to complete a form to declare a National State of Emergency. This
form is attached in Appendix Two. You may wish to discuss with your colleagues the
exact time and date the COVID-19 Cabinet Committee wish the declaration to be made.

19. A National State of Emergency will immediately come into force upon your signing of
the declaration and stay in place for exactly 7 days.

20. Parliament must meet once a State of National Emergency is declared. | (as Director
Civil Defence Emergency Management) recommend that you declare the morning of
Wednesday 25 March 2020, before Parliament meets, so that they can then be
informed before the House rises.

21. You, as Minister of Civil Defence, or the Prime Minister should you be unavailable given
the impact of COVID-19, together with me, will then need to immediately give notice to
the public by any means of communication reasonably practicable in the
circumstances. You will also need to advice the media and CDEM Groups of this
decision, either by you remotely or preferably, by the Prime Minister

22. Officials have prepared a draft Statement to the House attached at Appendix Three.
The words that must be spoken in the House are indicated in bold. | recommend that
your Private Secretary works with the Prime Minister's Office to ensure the final
statement is correct.

23. A National State of Emergency will expire 7 days after the time and date on which it
comes into force, unless extended or terminated at an earlier time. It is anticipated the
declaration will need to be extended. We will provide you with further advice about
extending the period of this declaration. You may wish to discuss the COVID-19
situation and response with your colleagues prior to making your decision.

24. |, as Director Civil Defence Emergency Management, and officials are preparing
extension forms for you and will advise you as to their use and associated processes
later in the week. Once the declaration has been made, we will publish the declaration
in the Gazette as soon as practicable, as required under the CDEM Act.

DPMC: 4237500 Page 5 of 14
IN CONFIBENCE
