IN GONFIDENCE
APPENDIX 4
Statement to House, National State of Emergency, Christchurch City
2011
| wish to make a ministerial statement under Standing Order 347 in relation to the
declaration of a state of national emergency. On the advice of the Director of Civil
Defence Emergency Management, and in consultation with the Prime Minister and the
Mayor of Christchurch, at 10.30 a.m. | declared a state of national emergency for
Christchurch City, under section 66 of the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act
2002. That step was taken as a result of the magnitude 6.3 earthquake that occurred in
Christchurch yesterday at 12.51 p.m., and the continuing aftershocks.
This is the first time in New Zealand’s history that a state of national emergency has been
declared as a result of a civil defence emergency event. | took this step because |
considered the emergency to be of such a degree that the required civil defence
emergency management would be beyond the capacity of local civil defence emergency
people to respond to on their own. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act
this declaration means that the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management may
control the exercise and performance of the functions, duties, and powers of the civil
defence emergency management groups and group controllers. There is no other
difference between the powers under a state of local emergency and a state of national
emergency. The declaration of a state of national emergency will ensure the maximum
possible coordination and cooperation between central and local resources and
international assistance. It also demonstrates the Government’s commitment to help
people in Canterbury to respond to this disaster.
Like the Deputy Prime Minister, | wish to pay tribute to those personnel who work in civil
defence in Canterbury, and in all the agencies that are working with them. As has already
been said, often they are working to help other people while they are dealing with
personal issues in relation to their own circumstances. | also pay tribute to the Australian
search and rescue parties who are already on the ground in Christchurch. Teams from
the United States, Singapore, the United Kingdom, Japan, and Taiwan will be deployed
as soon as they get here. Offers of earthquake and rescue specialists have also been
received from Belgium, Israel, the European Union, Greece, Malaysia, Argentina, and
France. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has
offered assistance, and International Search and Rescue Advisory Group teams have
been mobilised. An offer of assistance has been received from the United Nations
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.
As we consider this statement our thoughts are with the people in Canterbury, particularly
with those who have lost loved ones and with loved ones still missing.
DPMC: 4237500 Page 14 of 14

4IN-CONFIDENCE-
