4N-CONFIBENGCE

8. ACOVID-19 Level 4 threat level includes a range of interventions that require powers
made available under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act (CDEM Act)
during a National State of Emergency.

9. ACOVID-19 Level 4 threat level means, the best advice we have at the moment is that,
it is likely that the disease is not contained and there is sustained and intensive
transmission in New Zealand. |, as Director Civil Defence Emergency Management,
and my officials consider declaring a National State of Emergency is an appropriate
action to take in response to COVID-19. It will enable us to respond by all means
necessary as the situation develops and have full access to the resources available to
preserve human health, society and the economy.

10. The CDEM Act also contains provisions to enable the enforcement of powers to ensure
compliance, further ensuring the spread of the virus is inhibited.

Previous Example of a National State of Emergency

11. This is only the second time in New Zealand history that a State of National Emergency
has been declared.

12. A State of National Emergency for the Christchurch City was declared on 23 February
2011 in response to the February 22 Christchurch earthquake. A copy of the Statement
to the House issued at the time is attached as Appendix 4.

13. The National State of Emergency was declared for Christchurch City as resources from
across the country were required in order to assist response and early recovery efforts
and lasted from 23 February 2011 until’30 March 2011 (66 days)

14. Any declared National State of Emergency for COVID- 19 will be the first time such a
declaration will be made for the whole of New Zealand

Powers released in a National State of Emergency

15. Appendix A outlines the powers which are released (and to who) upon the declaration
of a National State of Emergency.

16. |, as Director Civil Defence Emergency Management, and my officials are working to
determine and clarify how any potential COVID-19 intervention measure, enabled by the
CDEM Act, may be enforced and the penalties that may be imposed for non-compliance.
Cabinet has also discussed the use of the Epidemic Preparedness Act and the Health

Act to enable the implementation and enforcement of a variety of measures required
across Level 3 and Level 4 COVID-19 alerts.

17. The CDEM Act can be used in conjunction with these other Acts and officials are working
to clarify which piece of legislation is most appropriate for each potential COVID-19
intervention measure.

“Dates in paragraph 13 should read "23 February 2011 until 30 April 2011"
DPMC: 4237500 Page 4 of 14
4IN-CONFIDENCE-
