IN-CONFIDENCE-
Purpose

1. This briefing provides advice on whether to declare a National State of Emergency in

response to the COVID-19 pandemic impact on New Zealand.
Declaring a National State of Emergency

2. Declarations are made by the Minister of Civil Defence who may declare that a National
State of Emergency exists over the whole of New Zealand or any particular areas or
districts where an emergency has occurred or may occur."

3. The effect of the declaration is that the control of the response to COVID-19 will be
managed at the national level and will ensure local and regional level compliance with
instructions issued. The aim is to ensure the health system capacity is not exceeded
through strengthening public health measures and supporting the enforcement of
COVID19 interventions to reduce and eliminate sustained and intensive transmission
of the disease.

4. Fora National State of Emergency to be declared, the situation must be an emergency
under the CDEM Act and meet three legal tests. An emergency situation is:

i) aresult of any emergency happening, whether natural or otherwise (including
epidemic/pandemic) and

ii) causes or may cause loss of life, injury, illness or distress or in any way
endangers the safety of the public; and

iii) cannot be dealt with by emergency services, or otherwise requires a significant
and coordinated response under the CDEM Act.

5. |, as Director Civil Defence Emergency Management, advise that the emergency is, or
is likely to be, of such extent, magnitude, or severity that the civil defence emergency
management necessity or desirable in respect of it is, or is likely to be, beyond the
resources of the Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups whose areas may be
affected by COVID-19.

6. 9(2)(h)

7. On 23 March 2020, the Prime Minister announced the New Zealand threat level for
COVID-19 is now level 3, and will move to Level 4 at 11.59pm on Wednesday 25 March.

* Such as when a State of National Emergency was declared as a result of the Christchurch Earthquakes in 2011.
DPMC: 4237500 Page 3 of 14
4N-CONFIDENCE
