IN CONFIDENCE
Noting Paper
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From Tony Lynch, Deputy Chief Date 11/03/2020
Executive, National Security
Group, DPMC
Purpose
1. This document provides a summary of the first table-top exercise held Thursday 5™ March to
check planning for the COVID-19 event.
Background
2. To inform the response to COVID-19, ODESC is placing a particular focus on scenario-based
planning. This includes a regular sequence of table-top exercises based around a series of
scenarios ranging from the current situation through to a “worst case”. These exercises will
be conducted over the coming weeks, and will focus on gaps identified during the exercise.
3. The first such exercise was held on 5 March 2020. It tested the government response actions
to a ‘cluster’ scenario, with clusters in a Pacific community in Auckland, a group of adults with
links to a marae in Gisborne, and a rest-home in Nelson. These scenarios were extended
during the day to test the impact on schools and of a cruise ship with sick individuals on-board.
In this situation, the focus was on containing the virus, to stop transmission between
individuals and limit people infected.
Outcomes
4. The exercise participants identified the following key lessons:

a. Public health capacity and capability is sufficient to manage the cluster scenario as
outlined above. In all scenarios, ‘contact tracing’ of those close to affected individuals is a
time and resource-intensive endeavour, but an essential step and one where resources
can be diverted from other agencies as needed.

b. The Ministry of Health has extensive powers under Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 to
require people to submit to medical examination and/or quarantine to prevent the
movement of people, livestock, goods or vehicles, aircraft or ships. The proactive use of
these powers will be crucial to effectively prevent the spread of this virus — but it will have
a disruptive effect on communities.

c. Public communications has crucial roles in containing the spread of this virus. The
exercise reinforced the need to increase core public hygiene messaging and pre-empt
potential non-compliance with actions undertaken by government agencies. Messaging
will be developed with several audiences in mind; the general public, and those who have
been in contact with affected individuals and may be asked to self-isolate. The theme of
the messaging will be on actions that individuals and communities can take to keep
themselves safe, including explanation of why certain actions are necessary.

Page 1 of 2
DPMC: 4226834 IN CONFIDENCE
