MINISTRY OF
ey aU aU |
MANATU HAUORA

Purpose

1 This report sets out options for exemptions from travel restrictions for tertiary students and
the resources, trade-offs, and assurances required to operationally manage the potential
risks, including risks to the health of people in New Zealand and the Pacific.

National Pandemic Response Procedures

a New Zealand is currently in the ‘Keep it Out’ phase of national pandemic response
procedures. There have been no confirmed cases in New Zealand to date, however our risk
assessment is that the likelihood of one or more imported cases of COVID-19 infection in
New Zealand remains HIGH.

3 Effective border management currently remains the best way to protect New Zealanders
from the health effects of a potential outbreak and officials continue to recommend taking
a precautionary approach, as epidemiology of the outbreak and scientific knowledge
continue to evolve.

4 The readiness of the public health system to manage the overall threat to public health is
increasing. As at 26 February 2020, some public health factors indicate no worsening of the
current situation. For example, emerging evidence about the severity of the illness has
remained constant and World Health Organization (WHO) advice on travel restrictions has
remained the same. There has been a steady increase in the number of deaths, but the
number of laboratory confirmed cases has started to slow in mainland China and the
number of recovered cases has increased.

a However, other factors signal uncertainty and continual change. The epidemiology of the
outbreak is still developing. China has ceased routine testing of milder cases and a
significant proportion of people who tested positive on the cruise ship in Japan had no
symptoms.

6 The increasing cases of community transmission in the Republic of Korea, Italy and Iran are
significant changes to the epidemiology. There is also still some uncertainty about the
transmissibility of COVID-19. As more case data is being released from mainland China,
more accurate assessments on the transmissibility will be made.

Part A —- Could we manage a student exemption?

7 Approximately 24,500 Chinese nationals held international student visas at the time the
travel restrictions were introduced, with 14,500 of these already in New Zealand’. We
estimate that 8,000 tertiary students were intending to travel to New Zealand for study at
public institutions, with 6,300 intending to study at universities. The numbers who would be
able to travel under a limited border reopening are lower, because this excludes students
from Hubei, or whose visa cannot be processed,

1 The figures in this paper understate the impact of the restrictions as they do not include people intending to study short

courses, who can do so holding only a visitor visa.

Health Report:

6
