Ries
oi VaU st
MANATU TIAUORA

Italy

63 Italy has reported a rapid increase in cases of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 since 21
February 2020. An initial investigation by Italian authorities has found several clusters of
cases in different regions of northern Italy. This is particularly concerning with evidence of
local transmission of COVID-19.

64 A joint WHO and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) mission
arrived in Italy on 24 February to support Italian authorities on the COVID-19 situation. This
support is expected to be in the areas of clinical management, infection prevention and
control, surveillance and risk communication. At this stage the focus is on limiting further
human-to-human transmission. We expect to understand more as the situation develops.

65 Limited local person-to-person transmission of COVID-19 in countries outside of China was
expected, however the rapid increase in reported cases in Italy over the past few days is of
concern. While the majority of cases (4 out of every 5) experience mild or no symptoms
(based on current data) our primary concern is the level of transmission risk.

66 Health authorities in Italy are implementing measures to prevent onward transmission,
including closing of schools and bars and cancelling of sports events and other mass
gatherings in the areas affected. This aligns with the containment strategy currently being
implemented globally in an effort to stop the spread of COVID-19.

67 Information about the level and nature of the transmission in Italy and other areas with
clusters will continue to inform the New Zealand approach.

Iran

68 Iranian officials announced yesterday a total of 95 confirmed cases of COVID-19, plus 15
fatalities. This is a 24 hour increase of 50% from 62 confirmed cases. For the first time,
Iranian officials have also indicated the current number of suspected cases in Iran is 900. A
WHO team was scheduled to arrive in Tehran on 25 February to support the Iranian
response to the virus.

69 Health authorities in Iran are implementing measures to prevent onward transmission,
including border screening, closing of schools and universities and cancelling mass
gathering events. In addition, reports indicated seminaries in Qom are closed until further
notice.

70 Airlines have also begun acting in response to the increased number of cases in Iran, with a
number of airlines cancelling flights in and out of the country. Some countries in the region
have also enacted border measures to restrict entry from Iran.

Republic of Korea

71 The Korean Centre for Disease Control and Prevention announced 25 February 144 new
confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 977 with 10 deaths.

Health Report:

23
