OMS aelg

eis U st

SANATH ALORS
of slower growth for the remainder of 2020. At this time, the approach to any interventions
should continue to be proportionate. Any intervention should take into account our close
international partners and should avoid lock-in or setting precedents for interventions that
cannot be extended or scaled up across the economy

International relationships suggest caution

;

35 There is some risk an exemption could open up the possibility of onward transmission of
COVID-19 to the Pacific.

36 Agreeing an exemption for Chinese students would also set a precedent for other countries
currently at risk of becoming places of cancern (e.g, Republic of Korea and Japan), who
would expect similar treatment for a further cohort of several thousand international
students.

37 Australia haye so far taken a different approach to implementing their exemption for
students, a more conservative audit and verification model.

Public confidence needs to be maintained

38 From a public confidence perspective, relying on an assurance based model, rather than
audit or mandatory quarantine (like our partners), may raise relationship issues given the
asymmetry of response.

39 Part of an assurance system would rely on the establishment of standards and a checklist
for providers. These would be based on the guidance for self-isolation developed by the
Ministry of Health. Ensuring these standards are understood and a sufficient level of
assurance is provided requires expert public health resource to develop. Providers may also
need to contact regional Public Health Unit? staff for checking and testing their
understanding of the standards over and above current support. Most of the experienced
public health experts who can undertake this work are deployed to the current response
and supporting New Zealand to remain in the "Keep it Out" phase.

Regional Public Health Units play an important role in New Zealand's health system, particularly in preparation for
responding to a pandemic situation, These units also focus on regional environmental health, communicable disease
control, tobacco control and health promotion programmes

Health Report:

13
