UTS. e)
HEALTH
MANATU IIAUORA
Description Maximum | Comment
numbers?
Health science | All students self- 5,400 Too small to be of value relative
students only isolated in dedicated to cost, and to be a valid pilot
hostel-type facilities. for a larger exemption.
No clear rationale for picking
winners in particular disciplines.
Would privilege Otago and
Auckland universities over
others.

18 While officials consider an assurance model could be implemented by the universities for
most of the options, we consider that the returning students or PHD and post-graduate
cohort are both good options because the universities can provide isolated accommodation
options for a group of this size and there may be greater public understanding about
accommodating these groups of students. There may be a marginally stronger case for PHD
and post-graduate students to be more mature about self-isolation arrangements.

Quota option

19 Advice was sought on an additional quota option. This option would enable 600 students
from China to enter New Zealand. The allocation of quota would be negotiated by
Education agencies with Universities New Zealand and individual universities, and would be
based on the relative negative impact of the travel restrictions.

20 The analysis is similar to the last option that the cost and effort required to implement this
is likely to outweigh the benefits — this would be more of an issue for some universities with
lower numbers of students from China. Decision making on individual students may seem
arbitrary, and lead to greater dissatisfaction.

High level timeframes

21 The table below shows the total time from Ministers approving a targeted exemption, to
the dates at which students could be confirmed for travel, and then enter normal study.
The ranges show the time it would take to process a full cohort, assuming all are willing and
able to travel immediately. In practice, capacity constraints mean we expect far few
numbers, therefore processing times should be at the low end of the ranges.

Health Report:

10
