PSEA ales
HEALTH.
MANATU HIALIORA
COVID-19: Border measures travel
° °

exemption for International Students

Purpose of report

You have requested advice from officials about whether you could or should implement an

exemption from the travel restrictions for tertiary students from China, assurance that we can

operationally manage the potential risks, including risks to the health of people in New Zealand
and the Pacific, and if so, what the implications are.

Key points

e New Zealand is currently in the ‘Keep it Out’ phase of national pandemic response
procedures. The likelihood of one or more imported cases of COVID-19 infection in New
Zealand remains HIGH. Effective border management currently remains the best way to
protect New Zealanders from the health effects of a potential outbreak and officials continue
to recommend taking a precautionary approach, as epidemiology of the outbreak and
scientific knowledge continue to evolve,

* Students from China represent a significant and valuable part of our education system. Just
over 40% of students from China (9,800) expected to undertake studies this year are outside
the country,

. small numbers ere continuing to arrive in NZ by travelling through thir
countries, but most won't commence their studies unless there is a change in border
measures. Experience tells us that this will have significant and long lasting consequences
for learners and institutions.

* Thespread of COVID-19 in China has diminished significantly in response to stringent public
health measures over the last few weeks, but the number of cases in other countries has
increased. Public health officials are preparing for a possible pandemic with scenarios
ranging from limited to widespread outbreak in NZ. The consequences of an outbreak in NZ
are potentially wide ranging and could have an impact right across the country that far
exceed the impact of an outbreak in China alone.

» In response to advice on exemptions on the current travel restrictions for international
students from China, officials have considered two questions: 1) could an exemption be
implemented with minimal risk to the NZ public?; and 2) should such an exemption be
implemented?

* Our advice is you could implement an exemption with minimal risk to the New Zealand
public based on an assurance based approach for up to 2,000 PHD and post-graduate
students. Students from mainland China outside Wuhan represent a low public health risk,
and could be effectively accommodated in self-isolation once they have arrived.

¢ But we are also advising that, on balance, you should not implement such an exemption
because any exemption could require scarce public health resources and represent too great
an opportunity cost. Any mode! would divert resources away from planning and responding

Health Report:

2
