MINISTRY OF
Insert other agency logos as required HEALTH
MANATU HAUORA
Appendix 6: Risk mitigating isolation measures that are advised in scenarios with differing levels of risk
New Zealand
a Risk of transmission Guidance/Procedures * bs
Risk of exposure accommodation Health resources required / provided Legal framework
Isolation settings
Reese Within the accommodation settings in| MoH guidance on how to isolate in .
Such as where people have been Support provided through Health System Public Health Act 1956
New Zealand each measure
Where they will isolate
Self-Isolation Low - People that have been in places of Individuals staying in Low - The risk of transmission in Guidance for self-isolation* Healthline resource for registration and phone Health sector providing support through
concern in the Past 14 days have a low risk of Pavate residences Gr settings Hier people have pecs to Register with Healthline for follow advice standard models of care.
contracting the virus similar (such as private private residences with established up
homes, flats or networks of support is low.
homestays)
Supported Self- | Low - People that have been in places of Individuals are supported | Medium -The risk of transmission is Guidance for self-isolation. Healthline resource for registration and phone Health sector providing support through
Isolation concern in the past 14 days have a low risk of through shared considered medium in ' advice. standard models of care.
. . . ~ 7 . Supplementary guidance for self-
contracting the virus accommodation facility accommodation settings where people | . on : i
5 a isolation in shared In some circumstances may require assurance
settings (such as student | are in close proximity or a shared s aig an 3
iefhalivorhotel eon eath accommodation facilities. from facility management that the guidance can
hostels/hallser-hotels). accommodation taciity, be met effectively. If the guidance cannot be met,
additional support through Health resources may
be required.
Where individuals have no accommodation,
additional resources may be required (including
cross-government).
Monitored Self- | High - Individuals who are identified as a close | Can vary from private Low / medium — As above, this will Monitoring and support managed | This group will be a priority for Health resourcing | Health sector providing support through
lsolation contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case that residences to shared depend on accommodation settings as per standard guidance for and will require individual follow up and standard models of care.
have a high risk of developing COVID-19 accommodation facilities. (private or shared accommodation close contact management. management through the Health system. Health legidation can becused forthisigroap
disease facilities). . ‘ % A
and this moves into enforced isolation
(below)
Enforced High - Individuals at high risk of developing Can vary from private Low - Enforced isolation procedures Managed as per operating Intensive Health resourcing required including A Medical Officer of Health can require
|solation COVID-19 disease (e.g. have been in a place of residences to shared follow very strict requirements procedures for enforced isolation | accommodation facilities, laundry, cleaning, food, | isolation or quarantine for the ‘purpose of
identified outbreak such as Wuhan and/or have | accommodation facilities. | regarding proximity and shared (e.g. Whangaparaoa) and other services. preventing the outbreak or spread of any
had close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 accommodation facilities. infectious disease’.°
case).
4 www.health.govt.nz/our-work/diseases-and-conditions/novel-coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-self-isolation
5 Health Act 1956 Section 70 ‘Special powers of medical officer of health’
