nas

aes!
have seen that they can accelerate and spread fast, despite public health measures to
contain the virus (eg Italy, Republic of Korea)

27 These recent outbreaks are concerning, because we are seeing local transmission through
asymptomatic people and we have not yet reached global agreement on the epidemiology
of the virus. This includes the rates of transmission and the severity. The situation is rapidly
changing, and there is the potential for a global pandemic to be declared in the short term,
and for further places of concern to be identified.

2 |€6(E@a

29 The risk that relates to this cohort of students of exposure to the virus is the same as New
Zealanders that have come from mainland China (outside Hubei). However, any exemption
of a student cohort would divert scarce health resources away from our wider preparation
for COVID-19. This could limit our ability to respond effectively to an outbreak in New
Zealand, while delivering core public health services. Therefore, we do not recommend an
exemption for international students from the travel restrictions.

30 In addition to public health, there are secondary considerations, including, economic
impacts, international relationships and public confidence.

Economic considerations suggest the potential gains are small in the wider context

> Fea

32 Against this, we need to weigh the risks of a COVID-19 incursion into New Zealand, Should
COVID-19 reach New Zealand and result in sustained transmission and a widespread
outbreak we expect the economic disruption would be more significant and potentially
long-lasting. The downside risk of an onshore pandemic would significantly outweigh any
benefits in terms of economic value of education exports, particularly if the exemption is for
a limited group of students. The marginally increased (but still relatively low) probability of
this significant downside risk needs to be set against the higher likelihood of a much
smaller economic benefit

33 Officials now consider we are moving to a scenario where the potential overall economic
impact is likely to be longer-lasting, and New Zealand is likely to experience a longer period

Health Report:

12
