USS mela
el M el
MANATU ALORA

72 Republic of Korea (ROK) officials have stressed that the Government is taking concerted and
all-out efforts to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak.

73 The ROK Government has asked other governments to not impose overly restrictive
measures for people travelling to and from the ROK. The Government has expressed its
expectation to be informed in advance of any measures being imposed.

74 Screening at airports was underway in ROK before the virus was introduced to a group in
Daegu. Since that event, the number of cases increased rapidly over the past week from 31
cases to 977 cases. This level of transmission risk is very concerning.

75 The government has since focused its resources on containing the spread beyond the
group in Daegu. This is across three main areas:

75.1 Prioritising testing of those considered high risk

75.2 Testing all people in Daegu presenting common cold symptoms

75.3 Individually contacting a list of people believed to have had contact with members
of the group in Daegu.

WHO declaration

76 Given the global developments in the past few days, the WHO has been providing
information on the publicly declared level of concern related to COVID-19.

7 The WHO declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern — the highest level
of alarm — when there were less than 100 cases outside China, and 8 cases of human-to-
human transmission. As of 25 February there were 2,459 confirmed cases outside China
across 33 countries.

78 It is possible that the WHO will describe the epidemic as a pandemic. This will be based on
the ongoing assessment of the geographic spread of the virus, the severity of the disease it
causes and the impact it has on the whole of society.

79 As of 24 February, the WHO did not consider there was an uncontained global spread of
the virus however has recognised that the virus has pandemic potential and the concerning
increase of new cases.

Next steps

80 The Ministry of Health is continuing to gather information about the global situation and is
reviewing current border measures every 48 hours.

81 The epidemiology and transmission of the virus remains unclear at this stage with local
transmission identified in Italy. The WHO risk assessment for the global level remains HIGH.

82 The COVID-19 Technical Working Group will be meeting on 27 February to consider the
current case definition and developing global situation.

Health Report:

24
