Mion:
HEALTH
MANATU TIAUORA

8 In all the scenarios presented in this paper, a mix of reduced willingness to travel, and
airline capacity constraints, mean that:

8.1 the actual numbers of students arriving under any exemption would be significantly
lower

8.2 those arriving would do so over an extended period of some weeks, and not all
immediately following the exemption being introduced.

Universities New Zealand proposal

9 China is a critical market for the tertiary sector. The most recent experience of a significant
downturn in the international market from China was that it took 8 years to re-establish the
international education numbers at the previous levels.

10 Universities submitted an initial proposal for how an exemption could work several weeks
ago. Since then officials have been working closely with Vice Chancellors through an
iterative process to ensure universities could meet the demands of a system that also meets
government's assurance needs.

11 The Vice Chancellors have demonstrated willingness to meet any requirements that the
government considers are necessary from a public health perspective. For example, the
universities plan to accommodate exempted students in seven separate facilities (isolated
from domestic students). All universities also have onsite health staff (including more than
fifty GPs), extensive pandemic management plans, and are also planning campus wide
hygiene campaigns.

if exemptions were agreed, we propose an assurance, rather than audit system

12 Officials have developed an assurance system that is intended to allow a cohort of Chinese
students to travel to New Zealand, enter self-isolation and then enrol for study, on a
managed basis. Further details of the assurance system are set out in the appendices.

13 The level of support provided to them, and the standard of self-isolation proposed, would
be significantly higher than the voluntary self-isolation for the 8,000 other people who have
arrived in New Zealand from mainland China since the imposition of travel restrictions. The
system would involve three key stages:

13.1. Pre-approval. Tertiary providers would attest to standards of managed self-isolation
set by the Ministry of Health; facilities would be assessed and approved by
government officials; and details of students in China and intending to travel would
be supplied to Immigration Officials.

13.2 Departure and travel to self-isolation. Students would be pre-approved by
Immigration, have a pre-departure and on-arrival temperature check, and be
escorted directly from the arrival gate to self-isolation in transport arrangements
that comply with Ministry of Health Standards.

13.3 Self-isolation and clearance to study. Students would be in a high standard of
managed self-isolation, with daily checks and close supervision by

Health Report:

v
