Wana
HEALTH
MANATU ITAUORA
17 Officials have identified five high-level options for cohorts, if Ministers wanted to progress
with an option.
Description Maximum
numbers?
All tertiary All universities, 5,400 Significant border re-opening
students at polytechnics and gives confidence internationally
public wananga students and to the education system,
institutions eligible. likely to result in faster recovery.
Range of Higher risk profile due to range
accommodation types of accommodation types and
including rental, overall numbers.
a and Operational challenges
OSKES: managing higher numbers of
institutions and students.
University All students self- 4,600 As above, but reduced
students only | isolated in 7 operational challenges as only 8
dedicated hostel-type institutions involved.
facilities. Privileging university sector risks
further lobbying, and may
threaten viability of international
education of the NZ Institute of
Skills and Technology.
Returning All students self- 3,400 Focuses on those students
students at isolated in 7 already with NZ
universities dedicated hostel-type connections. More manageable
facilities. number reduces operational
challenges and risk.
PHD and post- | All students self- 2,000"! Preferred option to balance
graduate isolated in 7 public confidence with sufficient
students at dedicated hostel-type border reopening to support
universities facilities. sector to recover.
(Preferred) Could be expanded to all degree
students if successful.

2 This numbers are initial midpoint estimates based on 2019 data and have not been quality assured. They are not driven
by known enrolment intentions of affected students. They represent our estimate of the maximum possible students
eligible under each option. We expect significantly fewer would actually travel.

1 The estimated breakdown is 1,230 in Auckland, 210 in Waikato, 200 in Canterbury, 180 in Wellington, 120 in Massey,
and 60 in Otago, based on the regional breakdown of the overall group. The actual distribution will depend on
individual student decisions.

Health Report:

g
