MINISTRY OF

HEALTH

(MANATU TIAUORA
universities. Officials have a high level of confidence in their experience of
managing student accommodation, including previous infections disease
outbreaks. After 14 days they would be cleared to study as normal, and move into
standard accommodation.

14 The universities have a substantive health workforce on their campuses. The table below
summarises information provided by the universities.

[Universities ——_| Description of health workforce

Auckland 7 GPs, 5 nurses and 6 counsellors available each day, spread
across city and Grafton campuses.

AUT Medical services at city and north campus locations. There is a
community health centre on south campus and nursing
facilities.

Waikato 3.1 FTE GPs, a nurse practitioner, 2.9 FTE nurses, a nurse
practitioner, counselling service, and 2 mental health nurses in
Hamilton and 1 nurse at Tauranga campus.

A medical practice on each of its three campuses.
9 FTE GPs and 11.3 FTE nurses.
2.5 FTE GPs, 2.5 FTE nurses, and 1.4 counsellors.

Canterbury 30 staff in total with 11 doctors, 8 nurses and counselling staff.

Otago 10 FTE GPs, 8 FTE nurses and 16 FTE in the mental health and
wellbeing team.

15 The alternative is an audit system, where government agencies more closely oversee and
manage accommodation, transport and contact with students. The Australian model is an
audit system, but this is being implemented for a very limited group of high school
students. Given the possibly large numbers of students involved in any NZ exemption, and
the resources this system would take, establishing and running an audit system would in
practice be very slow, and would be unlikely to be possible for more than a small number of
students.

16 The direct opportunity cost for undertaking auditing functions using expert public health
resources would detract from the overall response and preparedness measures for an
eventual New Zealand outbreak of COVID-19. Our advice is that this would not deliver
benefits that are worth the cost of setting up the system, particularly the diversion of health
resources.

Cohort Options for consideration

Health Report:

8
