jel N sl
MANATU HAUORA
Appendix 4: Supplementary Guidance for self-isolation in shared
accommodation facilities
Purpose:

1, This guidance is designed to ensure that shared accommodation facility providers
understand the public health implications, minimum requirements and adequate support
for individuals who have been in mainland China (or areas subsequently identified by
Ministry of Health as high risk) within the last 14 days to self-isolate.

2. It lays out the minimum requirements to ensure that individuals have adequate health and
welfare guidance and assistance and that symptoms or signs of coronavirus infection are
monitored and reported as necessary. It also provides guidance on accommodation facility
requirements and ethical considerations.

3. Itis not a substitute for the “one source of truth” information updated daily on the Ministry
of Health Website: https://www.health.govt.nz/our-work/diseases-and-conditions/novel-
coronavirus-covid-19

Minimum Requirements:

1. Current advice on self-isolation should be followed (https://www.health.govt.nz/our-
work/diseases-and-conditions/novel-coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-self-
isolation),

2. Accommodation providers should:

a, Provide written information to each individual explaining the procedures that will
apply.

b. Maintain a complete registry of people in self-isolation with regular check ins.

c. Direct and support individuals to follow current public health guidance for infection
prevention and control during domestic transport according to Ministry of Health
guidelines (see link above).

d. Document the proposed housing arrangements for the individuals during the
balance of their 14-day period since leaving mainland China — this must be in
keeping with Ministry of Health advice about self-isolation. If the standards cannot
be met by an accommodation provider, then alternative arrangements should be
available.

e. Ensure that there are enough health and welfare guidance and assistance staff
available to every individual.

f. Direct and support individuals to recognise symptoms and report them as
appropriate; those who have developed any symptoms should be checked by a
health professional (ambulance, primary care or hospital as clinically indicated).

g. Putin place communication strategies to ensure individuals are kept informed daily
about relevant aspects of their health and welfare.

h. Frequently communicate with others living onsite to allay fears and reduce stigma

i. Identify a liaison person(s) to lead communication with the Ministry of Health and
local health authorities.

3. Please note that individuals who have remained well and symptom free throughout their
self-isolation period should have a brief health check (but not testing for COVID-19) upon

Health Report:
20
