MINISTRY OF
IN-CONFIDENCE eeu

Emerging developments

Europe

10. Travel is still relatively open across Europe, meaning spread of disease is likely and
control is difficult. Adding Europe to Category 2 is currently being considered. Other
areas may also need to be considered for Category 2 as outbreaks develop globally.

The United States

11. The number of confirmed cases in outbreaks in parts of the United States, particularly
Seattle, have also increased. The number of reported cases in Seattle has increased
considerably over the last two weeks. The King County (Seattle) has reported 74 new
cases, bringing the official case count total in King County to 190 (as at 11 March 2020).
Adding Seattle to Category 1B is being considered.

12. Officials also consider that as there is an increasing numbers of cases, and as there are
direct flights from the West Coast of the United States, it would be advisable to
categorise the states of California, Washington and Oregon in Category 2. There have
been 135 reported cases in California, 14 reported cases in Oregon, and 162 reported
cases in Washington.

13. Travellers from the United States are not presently subject to any US-specific COVID-19
measures or restrictions by any country, other than from those that have adopted
blanket global measures or restrictions (e.g. Israel).

Officials are working on the likely
commercial, trade, and diplomatic implications.

" a

Italy

16. The confirmed number of cases in wider Italy (outside of northern Italy) are rising, and
are expected to rise further. Risk throughout Italy is now high. Adding wider Italy to
Category 1B may be appropriate. This may also provide for easier identification of
travellers from Italy at the New Zealand border. The Australian Government has
announced today, 11 March 2020, that its border restrictions will be extended to Italy
effective from 1800 hours.

China

Te. Since travel restrictions were introduced for China, the situation in China has improved,
especially outside Wuhan. Evidence suggests that the public health measures China has
taken have been effective in slowing the spread of the disease at this stage. Officials
will provide advice when the situation in China improves sufficiently to warrant
reconsideration of border measures.

Health Report: 20200422 2
