Rin saoi
IN-CONFIDENCE eee

Category implications

18. People travelling to New Zealand from areas in Category 1B have expectations to self-
isolate and register with Healthline, but do not have travel restrictions. This applies for
all passengers except flight crew, passengers transiting through New Zealand within 24
hours, and passengers who have only transited 1B countries.

13: The intent of Category 1B is to encourage people from areas where there are high rates
of COVID-19 travelling to New Zealand to undertake 2 weeks of self-isolation, or to not
to travel to New Zealand.

20. People travelling to New Zealand from areas in Category 2 are not expected to self-
isolate but to be aware of COVID-19 symptoms and call Healthline if they become
unwell. Category 2 does not have travel restrictions.

21. Expanding Category 2 allows clinicians to consider testing in a wider range of people
who present with symptoms that may be due to COVID-19. This would help to reduce
the chances that a case is missed in New Zealand.

Next steps

22. Further advice on the categorisation of areas of concern for border measures will be
included in the consideration of border measures at Cabinet on 16 March 2020.

23. Based on the emerging developments, officials are currently considering options for
potential changes to add emerging areas of concern to Categories 1B and 2.

24. The CVD Committee may wish to make a decision on changes now or defer
consideration to Cabinet on 16 March 2020, following further assessment by officials.

Recommendation

It is recommended that the CVD committee:

at Indicate decisions on the following potential category changes to emerging areas of
concern:

[areacfeoncem | Categerychange | Decision

Italy (i.e. wider Italy) Add to Category 1B Defer OR
Agree OR
Disagree

City of Seattle Add to Category 1B Defer OR
Agree OR
Disagree

Europe’ including the United Add to Category 2 Defer OR

Kingdom Agree OR

1 The definition of Europe applies only to the Schengen Visa Area and those countries subject to the European Union

freedom of movement of people rules (i.e. currently including the United Kingdom), with the exception of Italy, if Italy

is in Category 1B.

Health Report: 20200422 3
