MINISTRY OF
IN-CONFIDENCE eeu
MANATIT HAUIORA
Appendix 1: Key factors to consider for categorisation
Key public health considerations
Readinessof * When the readiness of New Zealand's public health system to respond to cases and/or
Naa Zeal, outbreak is high, focus could shift away from Category 1A to Categories 1B and 2.
health system * Capacity issues may also be important to consider. For example, if there are too many
to respond countries in Category 1A and 1B, then it is likely that isolation measures would not be able
to be met, or the level of non-compliance with isolation measures may be high.
* Depending on whether changes in the evolving epidemiology present a greater or lesser
Evolving risk to public health, this could warrant an associated category shift (upward or downward
epidemiology shift, respectively). The extent of outbreak in other countries including absolute numbers,
the rate, and trends is particularly important.
a © If data or evidence from WHO or other countries’ reporting indicates that high quality
Public health . . . . 3
effective public health measures are in place, this may warrant a downward shift in
systems and fas . : "
blic health categorisation. Conversely, if data or evidence suggests that public health measures are
pu . insufficient, ineffective or low quality this may warrant an upward shift in categorisation.
measures In « Any concerns regarding the quality or reliability of data and reporting may also be taken
other countries any 9 9 q pr g may
into account.
* Any re-categorisation would need to consider New Zealand's responsibilities as a main
The readiness - i
. entry point to the Pacific,
of the Pacific
© Logistically, adding areas of concerns into Category 2 is simpler for activities at the border
New Zealand and ies not require significantly more resources. _ ae
ablic heal « Adding areas of concern to category 1A or 1B has significant implications on resources at
Pp 2 the border, introduces logistical difficulties (e.g. expecting self-isolation for a growing
resourcing / . " . 3 S
oe number of travellers, with some likely to be unable to self-isolate easily, such as tourists)
logistics . . .
and has an opportunity cost for public health resources that may be more effectively used
elsewhere.
© Travel restrictions (category 1A) work best at a national level, where automatic systems can
Effedisveriessick be used to prevent travel. If there is significant level of movement between an area of
Border concern and other neighbouring areas, it is unlikely that border restrictions for an area will
restrictions be effective.
© This is also the case for travel restrictions for a specific sub-national region. This is because
restrictions would rely on passenger self-declaration rather than automated systems.
* The economic impacts come from both New Zealand's actions and the general global
situation. When considering border impacts we should consider specific impacts from an
Economic individual country and the aggregate impacts of all border measures.
considerations | * Economic considerations include: the reliance of New Zealand on the migrant workforce
from that country; trade and tourism impacts; and any impact on key travel routes to and
from New Zealand affecting other countries.
© Bilateral relationship considerations are secondary to the assessment of public health
Foreign factors. Close coordination with Australia will remain highly desirable, given the
relations interconnected nature of our border. Any bilateral relationship risk factors would need to
be identified, but can be managed by MFAT with the ability to provide advance notice to
mitigate risk through a no-surprises approach with key partners and other countries.
Health Report: 20200422 5
