Rin saoi
IN-CONFIDENCE eeu
°

Noting Paper: COVID-19

Border Measures Update

To: Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response

From: Hon Dr David Clark, Minister of Health

Date: 11 March 2020

Security level: IN CONFIDENCE Health Report number: 20200422

Purpose

i: This paper provides an update on the ongoing review of border measures for areas of
concern and emerging options for changes.

Comment

2 New Zealand's border restrictions should be considered within the context of a broader
pandemic response.

3. New Zealand is still undertaking steps in the ‘Keep it Out’ phase, however is also
actioning the ‘Stamp it Out’ phase. Over time, border management is likely to play less
of a role as more focus is placed on our domestic response through the next phases.

4.

The
pace of progression and our approach to border measures will depend on how the
domestic outbreak unfolds, and the evolving epidemiology.

5s New Zealand's border restrictions remain an effective security buffer to prevent and
delay the entry of COVID-19 into the Pacific region. This means any change will
necessarily involve consideration of potential ‘exit’ measures such as screening of
people travelling to the Pacific. Officials are preparing advice on such options.

Key factors for consideration when assessing areas of concern

6. Officials have recommended an agile approach to categorising areas of concern to
allow a rapid response as the global response develops. Categorisation of areas of
concern requires a swift, but balanced and considered assessment including any risks or
trade-offs at the time.

if Officials are assessing relevant public health factors as the primary consideration for
assessment and identifying any issues in relation to other factors such as the economic
or diplomatic factors.

8. Appendix One provides a description of these factors and how they will be applied.

9. Immigration changes will soon allow for travel restrictions by visa type which could
allow for the restriction of only those travellers that do not have a reasonable prospect
of undertaking effective self-isolation.

Health Report: 20200422 1
