i. are diagnosed with COVID-19;

ii. have symptoms consistent with COVID-19;

ili. have been tested for COVID-19 and are awaiting results;

iv. are aclose contact of a suspected/probable/confirmed case of COVID-19; and

v. have travelled internationally within the last 14 days.
Domestic flight transfers
7 A number of stranded foreign nationals are in the regions, and will not be able to
reach Auckland or Christchurch Airports through the approach recommended above.
Under current Level 4 requirements, stranded foreign nationals are not permitted to take
domestic flights to connect with international flights to leave New Zealand.
8 We recommend stranded foreign nationals be allowed to take a single-leg
domestic transit charter or commercial flight to Auckland or Christchurch Airports. An
approach to this is set out in Annex 1, and would occur as follows:

i. Stranded foreign nationals meet the conditions laid out above for taking land
transport to their domestic airport.

ii. | Stranded foreign nationals have a ticketed seat on an international flight (whether
scheduled commercial or, if agreed, charter) leaving New Zealand from Auckland
or Christchurch Airport scheduled to depart within 24 hours of the departure time
of the individual’s domestic (scheduled commercial or, if agreed, charter) flight.

9 Once the individual arrives at Auckland or Christchurch Airports, they would be
required, as soon as possible, collect their luggage from their domestic flight, proceed to
the international terminal, check-in for their international flight, and proceed through
necessary checks to go air-side. They must then remain air-side until they board their
international flight and leave the country.
10 Health checks would apply at domestic and international airports to ensure that
stranded foreign national passengers who became symptomatic would not be able to
proceed with the rest of their journey.
11 At present, there are few scheduled commercial domestic flights and a number of
regional airports have closed or are set to do so. In Alert Level 4, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Nelson airports open with the ability to travel by land-based
transport up to five hours, most of those wishing to travel should be catered for.
Special consideration groups
12 There will be some groups of stranded foreign nationals who may require particular
management processes, and that will be included in the special operating procedures for
foreign government-assisted charter flights. This may include students under the age of
18, and those with long layover times in Auckland or Christchurch.

Page 6 of 18
