REPORT
Ground transportation and domestic flight transfers
It is estimated there are 381,000 temporary visitors in New Zealand with around a quarter
estimated to be stranded foreign nationals wno may wish to leave. Some of these are
increasingly running out of money, and there have been reports of some flouting the Level
4 safety and health measures. This poses risks to New Zealanders. Facilitating their
departure would limit the exposure of health resources to these stranded foreign
nationals, reduce the risk of community transmission, and reduce scope for potential
future welfare needs.
2 At the same time, limited facilitation of these stranded foreign nationals departing
New Zealand will appease many of the approximately 50 missions who have expressed
interest in this issue to MFAT. We note that the issue is increasingly gaining international
media attention — particularly in Europe.
How would we do this?
3 A critical requirement associated with allowing stranded foreign nationals to depart
New Zealand is to uphold existing COVID-19 Level 4 safety and health measures. The
following processes are suggested to support the end-to-end system to do this. This end-
to-end approach is set out in Annex 1 below.
Land-based transport
4 Officials recommend that passengers currently close to Auckland and Christchurch
be permitted to travel to the respective international airports in Auckland and Christchurch
to depart on international flights for which they have tickets (whether scheduled
commercial or, if approved, charters), with a broader range of travel options than currently
exists. This travel would be considered an essential journey and included in the existing
Level 4 definitions of what constitutes an essential journey. (Christchurch international
airport is not currently receiving international flights).
5 The end-to-end approach recommended is set out in Annex 1. It would enable
stranded foreign nationals with an international air ticket to travel to the airport via private
ground transport, taxis or rideshare services, public transport, rental vehicles or dedicated
charter buses (e.g. arranged to transport stranded foreign nationals for a foreign
government-assisted charter flight). All stranded foreign nationals and providers would be
required to comply with the existing health guidelines for their respective modes of travel.
Journeys would be able to be made within five hours’ travel from the person’s location to
the airport in a private or rental vehicle, and within 2 hours’ travel for any non-private
mode.'
6 Also consistent with the current requirements, stranded foreign nationals would
not be allowed to travel if they are at risk of COVID-19, specifically they would not be able
to travel if they:
‘ The limit of five hours is consistent with the agreed limit for self-travel to self-isolation for international arrivals.

Page 5 of 18
