21 The benefits of the increase in flights are in: bringing in New Zealanders currently
stranded overseas, allowing the backlog of foreign nationals to depart reducing pressure
of managing these people on the New Zealand system, and the additional critical imports.
These need to be balanced against the additional strain placed on the border and health
infrastructure via managing additional infected individuals arriving on the additional
flights.
22 's9(2)(h), s9(2)(ba)
Foreign-assisted charter flights — overall rationale
23 Almost 50 diplomatic missions accredited to New Zealand have contacted MFAT
expressing interest in facilitating the departure of their nationals from New Zealand either
via commercial (scheduled and charter flights) or defence aviation options.
24 Initial feedback from about 25 missions indicates that there are around 35,000
foreign nationals potentially interested in options for evacuation (German and UK
nationals being the biggest cohorts) and that the primary reason for seeking to evacuate
is the inability to move around the country to catch commercial scheduled flights.
25 ~ Asper the geographic spread and volumes of stranded foreign nationals indicated
to us by stranded foreign missions (see table one below), scheduled commercial flights
are unlikely to be sufficient for moving stranded foreign nationals out of New Zealand in
an adequate timeframe. Foreign government-assisted charter flights would therefore be
needed to address gaps in the current remaining scheduled commercial air networks.
Foreign-assisted charter flights — repatriating New Zealanders overseas
26 ~The question arises of whether outbound charter flights contracted by foreign
governments (the German contract with Air NZ being the only one of which we are
currently aware) can be used to repatriate New Zealanders from the locations where the
flights land. Ministers have earlier agreed criteria which should inform decisions
regarding New Zealand Government assisted flights to return stranded New Zealanders:

i. | For individuals who are fit for travel according to advice from health authorities

ii. | No commercial flight options to New Zealand are available

iii. It is unsafe to shelter in place

iv. 5 Nations partners are evacuating their citizens

v. The New Zealand health system is not overwhelmed
S9(2)(g)(i), S6(a)

Page 8 of 18
