DRAFT IN CONFIDENCE
Implementation sequencing Public Health Assurance
Phase 1: Phases 2/3: +1 Travel phase Public health requirements
Already in place : diat I k .
Se, oo * Advised of health restrictions prior to ticketing
Pre-departure ¢ Provided a self-health assessment to complete prior to departure from isolation
location
¢ Private vehicle, rental car, specifically chartered shuttle/bus
* Enable shared Private qround * Only allowable within 5 hours from location of self-isolation to departure airport
vehicles to be used to t or * Passengers must wear masks, and social distancing enforced through dispersion
transport persons ranspo of seating
Ground with international « Commercial drivers will follow NZ Covid guidelines, inc PPE and cleaning
transportation ° Private vehicles only flights (public ; —— -
to airports transport, taxi, Public ground ¢ Bus, train, commercial ride share, taxi
commercial ride transport * Only allowable within 2 hours from location of self-isolation to departure airport
share service, charter « NZ Covid guidelines applicable, inc PPE, cleaning and spacing of passengers
bus/shuttle) * Check in place to ensure passenger has an international ticket prior to entering the
terminal
¢ Social distancing enforced through queue management for check-in and security
Domestic terminal ¢ Airline staff trained to identify unwell passengers
¢ Social distancing in departure lounge
* Enable additional ° oreased oeanng frequency fof toilets and other shared spaces
: : domestic flights to Ppropriate or ground sta
. « Commercial domestic : . _ . ;
Domestic flights between main meet international * Social distancing enforced through seat allocation
transfers centres flights (mix of Domestic flight * Airline staff trained to identify unwell passengers
commercial and g « Increased cleaning in accordance with NZ Covid guidelines
charter) « Appropriate PPE for cabin crew
Transfer from « Management of people flows to avoid mixing of inbound/outbound passengers
domestic to : :
: : « Increased cleaning frequency for toilets, transfer buses and other shared spaces
international :
: « Appropriate PPE for ground staff
terminal
* International charter * Check in place to ensure passenger has an international ticket prior to entering the
flights ex-AKL and terminal
: * Commercial CHC (as arranged by ¢ Health check prior to entering the terminal (if required by airline or foreign
International : : : :
flights international flights foreign governments government)
g ex-AKL based on Foreign International * Social distancing enforced through queue management for check-in, security,
National Repatriation terminal customs and immigration
SOP rules * Social distancing in departure lounge
¢ Airline staff trained to identify unwell passengers
¢ Increased cleaning frequency for toilets and other shared spaces
¢ Appropriate PPE for ground staff
¢ Utilise inbound ¢ Charter flights — social distancing requirements as contracted by foreign
capacity in charter International flight government
: ¢ Utilise inbound flights to repatriate ¢« Commercial flights — in accordance with carrier regulations
Use of inbound yo
: : ia capacity in charter New Zealanders from wags : : was
flight capacity ° Commercial flights : ‘ ¢ Clear responsibilities to provide transport to quarantine facilities for persons who
: flights for freight overseas, .
for freight/ only . . . fail health checks
(negotiated via recognising . pa: . age . : :
passengers va : Persons who fail ¢ Availability of quarantine facilities in the city of departure — or an appropriate link to
airlines) constraints on ; 1
: health checks local medical authorities
inbound border 4 ras : sigs . .
capacity ¢ Capacity within quarantine facilities taken into account as part of determining
number of flights / number of New Zealanders able to return on inbound flights
