5. Agree that in classifying these as an essential journey, these stranded foreign
nationals can travel to an airport via private transport, taxis or rideshare services,
public transport, or dedicated charter buses, subject to applicable requirements
and health guidelines.

Domestic air travel of stranded foreign nationals to Auckland and Christchurch Airports

6. Note that if ground transport to Auckland and Christchurch Airports is approved as
outlined in this paper, a number of stranded foreign nationals are in the regions
and will still not be able to reach Auckland or Christchurch Airports through the
approach recommended above.

7. Agree that stranded foreign nationals be permitted to travel to an airport and board
a domestic transit flight (scheduled commercial or, if agreed, charter) to Auckland
or Christchurch airports in order to connect with international flights, subject to all
relevant COVID-19 Alert Level health conditions, and so long as they have a ticket
booked for an international flight schedule to depart no more than 24 hours from
the departure of their connecting domestic transit flight.

Land-based transport to domestic airports

8. Note that extending the ability to take land-based transport within five hours of the
five domestic transit airports operating (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Nelson) would allow all but a very few stranded foreign nationals to
access international flights.

9. Agree that such a transit corridor be permitted for stranded foreign nationals.

Qatar Airways: moving to twice daily flights

10. Note that Qatar Airways has requested that the New Zealand Government allow it
to move from daily to twice daily flights between Doha and Auckland.

11.Note that no other airlines are currently flying between the Middle East/Europe
and New Zealand, and that these extra flights would provide a valuable means for
European nationals here to be evacuated and for New Zealanders stranded in
Europe to return home.

12.Note that these flights, depending on how many New Zealanders took them to
come home, could place strain on our system of transitioning New Zealanders
back into the country (including via managed self-isolation) during Alert Level 4.

13. Agree to Qatar Airways’ request to move to twice daily flights.

Foreign government assisted charter flights
14. Note that initial feedback from 25 diplomatic missions suggests there are around
35,000 foreign nationals who would leave if they could access enhanced means of
doing so on scheduled commercial or foreign government assisted charter flights
Page 3 of 18
