i. Consider stranded foreign nationals returning to their home nations to be
travelling for ‘essential’ purposes;

ii. Extend land-based transport options to support stranded foreign nationals
to get to Auckland and Christchurch Airports to catch flights out of New
Zealand;

iii. Allow use of a single-leg domestic (scheduled commercial or, if agreed,
charter) flight for people to transit to Auckland and Christchurch Airports in
order to leave on booked international flights; and

iv. Allow foreign government assisted charter flights to recommence under
carefully managed conditions

5 If agreed, these processes will be coordinated to work seamlessly with the current
process for managing the return of New Zealanders from offshore, and in
particular, around self-isolation and quarantine requirements. Both (inbound and
outbound) processes need to work in a way that respect the public health priority
of breaking the chain of community transmission to protect New Zealanders and
prevent overwhelming the New Zealand health system.

6 Alongside the implementation of the processes outlined above, strategic
communications is being developed to make it clear to New Zealanders why a
limited exemption to travel restrictions in this instance is in the national interest.

Consultation

7 This paper has been consulted with the Ministries of Transport, Health, Education,
Foreign Affairs and Trade, and Business, Innovation and Employment, as well as
Customs, Police, and the New Zealand Defence Force.

Recommendations

It is recommended that the COVID-19 Group of Ministers:

1. Note there are a significant number of stranded foreign nationals in New Zealand,
placing additional strain on our infrastructure and critical support services.

2. Note that the current land-based and domestic flight restrictions provide a
significant limitation on the ability of stranded foreign nationals to catch
international flights out of New Zealand.

Ground transportation to Auckland and Christchurch Airports

3. Note that a significant number of stranded foreign nationals are within two hours
of ground travel distance of Auckland or Christchurch Airports.

4. Agree that land-based travel to these airports, by a stranded foreign national with
a ticket on an international flight (whether scheduled commercial or, if approved,
charter) that is departing from within the city they are in or near, be considered an
essential journey for the purposes of the COVID-19 Alert Level system.

Page 2 of 18
