International flights, including foreign-assisted charter flights
13 Stranded foreign nationals seeking to leave New Zealand will depart on either one
of a very limited number of scheduled commercial flights, or a foreign government
assisted charter flight.
Commercial flights
14 While scheduled commercial flights have not dried up completely, they have
reduced significantly to the point where demand outstrips supply. Air New Zealand is only
operating two long-haul flights open to passengers at present — a twice-weekly service to
Hong Kong, and a thrice-weekly service to Los Angeles. There are a handful of foreign
airlines continuing operations, including two once-weekly services to Guangzhou and
Shanghai, and flights at slightly higher frequency to Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Doha.
15 Both Qatar Airways and Malaysia Airlines have sought to increase their capacity
to Auckland until mid-April — which can be seen as interest in catering for the current
demand by stranded foreign nationals to depart from New Zealand.
16 Some stranded foreign nationals may have tickets for commercial scheduled
flights which they are unable to take due to the restrictions on domestic movement in New
Zealand. Some missions have indicated their preference for these people to be allowed
to fly domestically to take these flights, before they consider any form of charter flights.
17 Qatar Airways, which is currently the only airline flying between New Zealand and
the Middle East/Europe, has a daily service between Auckland and Doha. It has proposed
to the New Zealand Government to add a second daily Doha—Auckland flight,
commencing immediately through to approximately 17 April.
18 Qatar Airways’ continued air links with New Zealand and through to Europe
provide a critical commercial option for foreign nationals in New Zealand to get home and
for New Zealanders in Europe to get back to New Zealand as well as vital support for our
supply chain including the import of critical medicines. Officials understand there may be
other airlines looking to restart commercial services temporarily to move stranded people
out in April, so there may be further requests coming.
49 ($9(2)(ba), s9(2)(b) (ii)

) Or on numbers are steadily decreasina
across all international flights. $9(2)(ba), s9(2)(b) (ii)
20 The challenge around additional flights at this time is that our current border
systems can handle a steady state of approximately 400 arrivals a day — primarily based
on the ability to manage a rolling volume of 1,300 in managed isolation. On 31 March,
the system processed 355 people so is close to capacity. This proposed increase from
Qatar would put a strain on this, although it is hard to know what the loadings will be. It
could be around or as they continue to decrease across all international flights
may be lower, and two ve a day may not equate to a doubling but rather numbers being
split across flights. s9(2)(ba), s9(2)(b)(ii)

Page 7 of 18
