28

Officials would recommend limiting our consular assistance
to using SafeTravel messaging to convey relevant information to registered New
Zealanders, and supporting particularly vulnerable New Zealanders to access the flights,
29 Whether they could access the places where we anticipate the Air NZ flights
chartered by the German government would land (Vancouver and Frankfurt) would
depend on the prevailing border restrictions. In respect of Germany, our current
understanding is that travellers are able to depart German airports if they are returning
home. We understand that there is also an exemption from intra-Schengen border
controls for the purposes of transit — so in theory New Zealanders could travel to Frankfurt
from other Schengen countries in order to meet a flight to New Zealand. [As the UK is
not a Schengen country officials would need to check if there are any impediments to
travelling from the UK to Frankfurt].
30 It is possible to make broad estimates of the potential demand for flights from New
Zealanders stranded in Europe, but it is not possible to make an accurate determination
due to the constraints of our data. In Europe as a whole (including the UK) the number
of SafeTravel registrants is over 5,000, but registration is voluntary and the actual number
of New Zealanders there will be much higher. For example there are about 500 New
Zealanders registered with SafeTravel as being in Germany, but our post estimates that
there are in fact over 3,000 New Zealanders there. In the UK, there are about 4,000
SafeTravel registrants but the estimated size of the NZ community in the UK is around
200,000.
31 Even with accurate data for the numbers of New Zealanders travelling or resident
in these countries, it is unclear how many of these are ‘stranded’ and wish to return to
New Zealand. SafeCase and SafeCrisis data - which records the number of people who
have contacted us and sought consular assistance, including those who may have
specifically requested assistance to return to NewdZealand - is also not
determinative. Our experience shows that this data would likely underestimate the
‘demand’ from New Zealanders for flights home. When new flight options become
available, we would expect more New Zealanders to ‘come out of the woodwork’ — for
example in Peru, SafeCase data shows that only about 10 New Zealanders have made
contact, but we are aware that about 60 New Zealanders registered for a private charter
flight to Australia/NZ. The cost of the airfare may also affect the uptake of any repatriation
flight.

Page 9 of 18
