Annex 3 — Strategic communications messaging

e Given comparative data on the spread of COVID-19 globally, the New Zealand
Government's advice to foreign nationals has been to shelter in place. However, if
foreign nationals stranded in New Zealand wish to return home, the New Zealand
Government will seek to facilitate this.

e The Government has decided to allow the limited movement of stranded foreign
nationals within New Zealand for a confined length of time, so that they can access
international flights to return home. Travel must only be undertaken for the purpose
of reaching the airport, and foreign nationals must have a ticket for an outbound
international flight before they are permitted to leave their lockdown location.

e There will be tight restrictions around this movement and we will be enforcing those
restrictions.

e We have taken some time to work through the various issues around this, and that
has frustrated some people. But our first priority has always been public safety in
New Zealand — we do not want to put extra pressure on our health services, or to
raise the risk of transmission of COVID-19.

e At the same time, we do want to be able to help stranded foreign nationals where
possible. Many have run out of commercial options to return home, and some are
also running low on funds. Their Governments are offering fly them home and it
makes sense for us to find a way to make that happen, while keeping safety front
and centre of our minds.

e Returning foreign nationals to their home countries will reduce the potential
pressure on health services in New Zealand, and it will also reduce the risk of
welfare issues developing for those people who are stranded and unable to afford
to be here much longer.

e We also have a responsibility to show caring and kindness for everyone that has
come to visit our country, and to help them get safely home to their families.

e The movement of foreign nationals domestically will be limited to a maximum of
five hours in a private vehicle, or two hours in a form of shared transport, to reach
the appropriate airport.

e We expect the international flights which will take stranded foreign nationals out of
New Zealand will depart from Christchurch or Auckland. For that reason, we are
also going to allow limited domestic air travel by stranded foreign nationals to reach
those two airports, and then take their international flights home. This is most likely
to occur from Wellington or other major airports, as flights are not available from
many regional airports at present.

e It is estimated that around a quarter of the 381,000 temporary visitors in
New Zealand are stranded foreign nationals who may wish to leave.

Page 17 of 18
