CVD Decision Paper

COVID-19: ALL OF GOVERNMENT PLAN FOR

MANAGING THE DEPARTURE OF STRANDED

FOREIGN NATIONALS FROM NEW ZEALAND

To COVID-19 Group of Ministers
From All of Government Group Date 1/04/2020

Purpose
To provide an overview on rationale and processes for stranded foreign nationals
to leave New Zealand on scheduled commercial or foreign-government assisted
charter flights under COVID-19 Alert Level 4. This paper has been approved by
Police Commissioner Mike Bush, head of the COVID-19 Operations Command
Centre, and Chris Seed, Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

Summary

1 There are approximately 381,000 temporary visitors in New Zealand, with around
a quarter estimated to be stranded foreign nationals who may wish to leave.
Governments from some fifty countries have expressed an interest in returning
their nationals from New Zealand.

2 Facilitating the departure of stranded foreign nationals in New Zealand has several
benefits, including limiting the exposure of health resources to these foreign
nationals (freeing them up to focus on New Zealanders), reducing the risk of
community transmission, and reducing scope for potential future welfare needs of
these foreign nationals (a number of whom are increasingly running out of money).
There may also be an opportunity for New Zealanders who wish to return to do so,
if there is a match between their location and the destination of the charter flight.

3 Under Level 4 restrictions, essential travel does not encapsulate foreign nationals
seeking to return to their home nations, and foreign nationals may only travel to an
international airport in the city they are currently in, and only in a private vehicle.
This creates a significant restriction on the ability of foreign nationals to depart
New Zealand, particularly as many foreign missions have significant numbers of
nationals outside Auckland — the only city receiving international flights at present.
Reclassifying limited travel by foreign nationals as ‘essential’ will enable their
return in a safe and effective way. For example, most Canadians are in the South
Island, while one third of France’s citizens are in the South Island. Reclassifying
limited stranded foreign nationals’ travel as ‘essential’ will enable repatriation in a
safe and effective way.

4 To facilitate the departure of stranded foreign nationals while respecting public
health drivers, officials are now seeking Cabinet agreement to:

Page 1 of 18
