Sensitive
93 The most important economic intervention we can make is to ensure that the
health system is operating at maximum capacity. Work is underway across
multiple fronts on this aspect and investment here has the highest benefit of all
interventions.
94 Our initial assessment is that a move from Level 2 to Level 3 will have significant
additional economic impact. Non-essential businesses will effectively have to
close their premises, so if they cannot work from home, non-essential business
activity will largely stop. Level 4 will exacerbate the impact by completely closing
premises of non-essential businesses. In addition, the closure of educational
facilities (aside from for children of essential workers) will place additional
pressure on people’s ability to work from home, although estimating that impact
is difficult. Clearly, the longer we remain in level 4, the greater the additional
impact. Given this, having clarity around the additional interventions available to
support firms and workers as soon as possible after going to level 3 will be
important.
95, The detail of the interventions required at Levels 3 and 4 are currently being
developed. These include an extension to the wage subsidy scheme focused on
mantaing votre atacen attachment S2NMESSMI TU,
| 4
97 The Government already has several policies in place, such as the employer
subsidy, SENOS itt
3 or 4 is declared, additional policies would need to be introduced.
98 To date, support has been relatively broad-brushed, but if the disruption is for a
sustained period of time (e.g. at Level 4 for a month or more), a more
differentiated approach will be required. For example, what this could look like is:
98.1 ensuring essential businesses remain able to operate even if demand is
very low, or if they face logistical or other challenges

98.2 maintaining critical capabilities in business which will be important to our
eventual economic recovery (even at a lower scale)

98.3 for other businesses, some will operate without needing support and i

99 We will need to design the specifics of interventions for the first two categories of
firms where necessary. It is likely to be a combination of measures such as the
wage subsidy scheme and saahivy Officials are also considering

Page 16 of 33
Sensitive
