Sensitive
whether other regulatory changes are needed to help support firm activity and
whether government will also need additional legal powers.

100 Where possible we want to ensure that the business support is commercial in
nature and doesn’t unduly interfere with any needed restructuring. A key reason
for this is that other businesses (including banks) are likely better able than
government to understand the long-term viability of solutions.

101 In Level 3, only affected educational institutions are expected to close. This is
more extensive in level 4. Level 4 means that parents and caregivers of younger
children (in particular) will not be able to work normally and may impact some
firms. A sensible mitigation is to follow the UK approach and keep some
educational facility capacity operational to cater for children of essential
employees.

102 Workers with the firms in the first two categories above are not likely to need
additional support.

103 There may be potential for redeployment at scale for some workers who are
unable to maintain their current job (e.g. into Healthline from contact centres in
other businesses).

104 Where businesses would fail without further government support, there is a key
choice to work through about how much we make payments which support
workers to remain attached to their employer. Ideally, retaining attachment for as
long as possible makes sense if the business will be viable once the economy
returns to a more normal state. However, there will be a substantial number of
businesses which will not survive (which is important to allow the economy to
transition to a ‘new normal’) and their employees will become unemployed.

105 Where people do become unemployed, there is a choice about whether to
continue with the existing suite of income support, or to increase the levels and
expand eligibility. 59(2)(@), s9(2)(a)(i)

106 Burden sharing will be important here. Businesses would be expected to support
their employees for as long as possible, but that may not be very long for some.
In addition, banks may be willing to accept interest only payments which would
also help mitigate the impact. S%(2)((i¥)

107 This analysis assumes that the economy continues with market signals operating
more or less as normal. Under a sustained period of Level 4, it is not clear how
well this would work S9(2))(iv)

An example here would be
ensuring that the full suite of essential services (and their supply chains) can
remain functioning in a manner that minimises public health risks and that key
workforces are able to get to work, and that they do work.

Page 17 of 33
Sensitive
