Sensitive

23 If community transmission becomes widespread we will have lost the opportunity
gained by closing the border. International advice is that for each case we have
identified, we may be missing nine. A study’ based on data of China’s COVID-19
infections prior to 23 January found that most COVID-19 infections were
undocumented and unidentified because the infected persons experienced no, or
only mild, symptoms.

24 Even with no further imported cases, if we have missed early cases transmitting
silently, we could suddenly face an exponential rise in cases, as has happened
elsewhere in the world.

25 New Zealand is currently at Level 2 alert: while outbreaks are contained, there
are more cases across the country and the risk of community transmission is
high and growing.

Level 1 COVID-19 is here, but contained. Stronger border measures, contact tracing,
guidance on mass gatherings.
Contained, but risks are growing because we have more cases. Reduced
physical contact, border closed, restrict unnecessary travel, restrictions on mass
gatherings.
Increasingly hard to contain, likelihood of community transmission. Non-
essential business to work from home or close their premises, avoid public
transmission, more domestic travel restrictions.
Widespread community transmission. Similar to local or national state of
emergency. People to stay home until under control.

26 Moving to Level 2 triggered additional measures to contain and slow the spread
of the virus, including closing the border and advice to reduce contact with each
other and cancel unnecessary travel and mass gatherings. We have already
implemented measures for Level 2, including:

26.1 Strict border measures

26.2 Advancing health system preparedness

26.3 Measures to reduce impact on jobs, health, our economy

26.4 Guidance for educational facilities, communities, workplaces, the
hospitality sector, and for the public at large regarding self-isolation

26.5 Asking people to take sensible precautions to protect and support the
most vulnerable to severe cases of COVID-19:
26.5.1 For those over 70 years, or with underlying health conditions or

compromised immunity, to stay at home as much as they can

1 https://science.sciencemag.org/content/sci/early/2020/03/13/science.abb3221.full.pdf

Page 4 of 33
Sensitive
