New Zealand — Chile Transit Arrangement
Key Points | -
Chile banned New Zealanders from transiting Chile on 31 Marchs6(a)
Following a discussion between the New Zealand and Chilean Ministers of
Foreign Affairs, it was agreed that a bilateral transit arrangement would be
reached to facilitate the repatriation of New Zealanders and Chileans.
The arrangement was concluded with Chile in an expedited manner, ahead of
the Cabinet meeting on 6 April, to ensure the imminent return via Santiago of
New Zealanders stranded in South America.
As the Chile arrangement predated the 6 April Cabinet decisions, it does not
include some of the specific transit conditions subsequently agreed by Cabinet.
s6(a), s6(b)
Because of this inconsistency with the Cabinet minute, the Minister of
Immigration has yet to be given the Special Directions for approval for Chilean
nationals to transit.
It is critical that this issue is resolved as a matter of urgency.
_ This would almost certainly disrupt the planned repatriation of
New Zealanders currently stranded in Peru scheduled for 13/14 April.
Due to the lack of commercial flight options to Santiago and absence of firm
government charter plans by Chile, large numbers of Chileans transiting
New Zealand are not expected. The length of time for any transits could also be
managed in this context. Airline health requirements imposed on passengers
would provide a level of assurance.
The transit arrangement with Chile is the only outlier to the process that is now in
place following the 6 April Cabinet decision on transits of foreign nationals. No
other variant is therefore expected.
A number of third country nationals are
planning to depart Rarotonga on Saturday. Many will connect to a flight on to
Doha on Qatar Airways from Auckland on Saturday evening. $6(b)

Given tnat Vona Is open to transit py tnira-country nationals,
an exception for those passengers coming from Rarotonga tomorrow would allow
them to leave Rarotonga and return home.

LEBEL
A.
(Z2¥ e\icity Buchanan
for Secretary of Foreign Affairs and Trade
