New Zealand — Chile Transit Arrangement
Practical effect of current Chile arrangements in New Zealand
7. Officials do not anticipate large numbers of Chileans seeking to transit Auckland en
route to Chile. We are aware of some stranded Chileans in the Pacific and Asia, in
addition to those in New Zealand, but the lack of commercial flight options means
they are largely sheltering in place. The Chilean government does not have firm
plans at this stage to conduct their own charter flight to repatriate its citizens
although they are looking to take advantage of other charter flights to the region as
they may arise.
8. s6(a), S6(b)
|
; As noted above, there are no commercial options to fly
between Auckland and Santiago at this stage. s6(a), s6(b)
g, [s6(a), s6(b)
Recommendation for Chile
10.In light of the imperative to have this transit arrangement operationalised as a
matter of urgency to protect the Peru charter flight, and given the practicalities
outlined above regarding any Chilean transits through Auckland, officials
recommend that the current terms of the Chile-New Zealand transit arrangement
be operationalised as soon as possible, despite its inconsistency with the
subsequent Cabinet decisions. Given that this arrangement is the only one agreed
before Cabinet's decision, we don’t expect any further exemptions for other
nationals.
Exemption to allow transit passengers to board Qatar Airlines
11. Officials have confirmed that Qatar has received the proposed transit agreement
from New Zealand. \s6(b)
The New Zealand Embassy in Abu Dhabi has
indicated this should arrive on Sunday.
12.There are a number of third-country nationals (including around 80 European
passengers) hoping to depart Rarotonga on Saturday (NZT) to arrive in Auckland
Saturday evening. Many of these will transit onto the QR 923 service to Doha
departing at 2030. Doha remains open for transits and |s6(b)|__ oO -
European nationals departing Auckland can transit via
Doha, but under current settings, European nationals flying in from the Pacific are
not able to until we receive confirmation of agreement to the proposed transit
arrangement. Officials therefore propose that an exception be made to allow
passengers from Rarotonga arriving in Auckland on 11 April, to be able to connect
