period, with access to accommodation and funding for living costs a condition of
their visas. Some of these may now also wish to leave and return home.

7 Foreign nationals are permitted to depart New Zealand where commercial
options exist and if private domestic travel to airports is possible. However, a
process of managed evacuation to repatriate foreign nationals will be required at
scale and is being planned for, as commercial options will not suffice.

8 In the interim, these people need to shelter in place. Many will have a safe place
to stay and means to support themselves directly (or resources offshore to call
on). If they do not, consular assistance from their own governments and travel
insurance should be their first port of call.

9 As a last resort, assistance is available to find accommodation, for emergency
healthcare, and for limited access to welfare (eg food, services) through their
regional Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Groups. This is
discretionary and only after other sources of support have been exhausted or are
not available. This support is temporary and offered on an extraordinary basis, in
light of the overriding public health interests associated with a pandemic.

10 So far, demand is low and there are very few acute cases reported among this
group. Officials will monitor demand as plans for assisted evacuation are put in
place.|s9(2)(f)(iv), s9(2)(g)(i)

11. s6(a), $9(2)(f) (iv)

12 Temporary migrants here on a settled basis, like many New Zealanders, may be
facing unemployment or income loss. For some, accommodation depends on
their employment.|s6(a)

The expectation would normally be
these temporary migrants return home. |s6(a), s9(2)(g)(i)

13 Repatriation of foreign nationals at such a scale is unlikely to be possible
s6(a), $9(2)(g)(i)

Managing New Zealanders returning home from overseas

14 Over the past week, officials have stood up a managed process for the arrival of
returning New Zealanders so they are placed in managed isolation facilities for
14 days or, where they have a suitable isolation plan and transport, self-isolating
in homes in close proximity to the arrival airport.

Page 2 of 17
