CVD Noting Paper

MANAGING STRANDED PEOPLE

To COVID-19 Group of Ministers

From All of Government Group Date 30/03/2020

Purpose

1 This paper provides an overview of the all-of-government approach to managing
stranded foreign nationals in New Zealand and New Zealanders stranded
overseas to ensure the success of the lock-down strategy during Alert Level 4.

Summary

2 Limiting and managing the movement of people around New Zealand is mission
critical to containing the spread of COVID-19 under Alert Level 4. However, there
are thousands of New Zealanders seeking to return home from overseas, and
thousands of foreign nationals stranded here who wish to be evacuated.

3 A holistic approach is needed across arriving and departing flights (commercial,
charter, and repatriation) to ensure we have the right resources in place to
manage a safe, smooth arrivals process. This must allow for adequate physical
separation with a parallel departures process to minimise transmission risk.

4 Public health risks associated with airport transfers, arrivals and departures can
be managed through a staggered approach. Avoiding a concentration of people
at any one point will allow travellers, airport and airline staff to most importantly
maintain physical distancing and separation between arriving and departing
passengers. Airport and airline staff will continue to follow established public
health protocols, including use of Personal Protective Equipment and maintaining
physical distancing in aircraft and at airports.

5 We have stood up a managed process for arrivals. This has required significant
Government resource at the border, but arrivals on commercial flights have
peaked and will now rapidly decline as commercial flights tail off. Consular
support is available but limited for those New Zealanders unable to secure a
flight home, and advice on and planning for their repatriation is underway.

6 There are over 383,000 foreign nationals temporarily in New Zealand. We
estimate a quarter of these are stranded foreign national: people who had only
planned to be in New Zealand for a very short period and cannot secure a flight
home. The vast majority are here on a more settled basis, including students,
migrant workers, and partners or dependents of workers. These people are not
stranded in the same way. They had planned to remain here for an extended

Page 1 of 17
