SENSITIVE

15 This process has required significant government resources. We have seen
some additional flights being scheduled over recent days as people seek to travel
home before flights run out and borders are completely shut. This has led to
more flights than anticipated and shifting flight schedules, but with continued low
loading of passengers compared to potential flight capacity (due to no shows and
missed connections).

16 So far, we have been able to balance supply of managed isolation facilities and
transport to them with demand from arriving passengers. We continue to work
through improved ways to manage the flow of passengers through and to/from
airports, including:

16.1. Airlines and airports are now directly providing to OCC regularly updated
schedules with a five day outlook and estimated passenger numbers,

16.2 Airlines are seeking information from passengers at check-in whether they
have self-isolation plans, and are providing final flight manifests at take-off
to Customs in New Zealand, and

16.3 Potential diversion of passengers to regional hotels further from Auckland
and/or diverting flights to other international airports if required to manage
supply and demand for managed isolation facilities.

17 We expect the numbers of New Zealander arrivals requiring support to isolate is
likely to have peaked, with most of the international carriers now having ceased
services to New Zealand from 31 March.

18 From April we expect a few providers to offer very limited commercials services,
including Air New Zealand and potentially Qatar Airlines. |s9(2)(ba)

However, if
demand continues for flights, and transit routes are viable, commercial operators
may be able to schedule additional arrivals.

Government support for New Zealanders stranded overseas

19 There are New Zealanders stranded overseas who do not have a realistic
prospect of commercial flights becoming available in the short term, but who wish
to return. Some are in increasingly difficult circumstances and are seeking
consular support. Consular support, including loans, are already available for
New Zealanders overseas who are experiencing financial distress and are
unable to return home.

20 A draft Cabinet paper has been developed by officials and will be considered at
the CVD meeting on 2 April. It provides advice on extending New Zealand
Superannuation and benefits for people who otherwise would have been back
within the legislated timelines, 56(a), $9(2)(9)() $9(2)(g)(i)

Page 3 of 17
