overseas, and thousands of foreign nationals stranded here who wish to be

evacuated.

2 Note that a holistic approach is needed across arriving and departing flights
(commercial, charter, and repatriation) to ensure we have the right resources in
place to manage a safe, smooth arrivals process. This must allow for adequate
physical separation with a parallel departures process to minimise transmission
risk.

3 Note that there are a suite of actions in place, or being developed, to manage
departures of stranded foreign nationals in New Zealand and arrivals of New
Zealanders stranded overseas in order to ensure the success of the lock-down
strategy during Alert Level 4, namely:

3.1. Standing up a managed process to safely process and accommodate New
Zealanders returning home. This has already been agreed to by Cabinet
with respect to arriving flights and is in operation.

3.2 Developing a similar centrally-managed process for those foreign
nationals wishing to leave New Zealand, through an orderly evacuation
process which prevents uncontrolled and large-scale domestic
movements.

3.3. In implementing an evacuation process, measures will include:

3.3.1 allowing people who are in the city of their departure to take a
private vehicle to the airport to leave on planned international air
services departing New Zealand;

3.3.2 developing transport options for foreign nationals across New
Zealand to international airports, while maintaining physical
separation, including domestic flights

3.3.3. working with the airlines and diplomatic missions to proactively
manage the schedule of departing Government, charter and
repatriation flights to stagger these in a manageable way

3.3.4  |s6(a), s9(2)(g) (i), $9(2)(f) (iv)

4 Agree that officials should report back on 2 April 2020 on:

4.1. aprocess to transport people by land, in addition to private vehicles, to
Auckland and Christchurch International Airports consistent with Level 4
requirements and the capacity of the Airports to process people;

4.2 aprocess to use domestic Air New Zealand flights to get people from
regional centres to Auckland and Christchurch International Airports
consistent with Level 4 requirements and the capacity of the Airports to
process people; and

Page 11 of 17
