ANNEX 2. POTENTIAL SHORT-TERM SUPPORT NEEDS OF TEMPORARY VISA HOLDERS IN NZ
Situation Likelihood of seeking more support during lockdown period
STUDENTS Most students are fee-paying and are required to demonstrate they can fund Low - Most students should be instructed to stay put until lockdown completes or
(81,000) living costs and have work rights before entering. They already have access to arrangements have been made to evacuate them.
pastoral care and accommodation services. Some (around 23,500) are
dependants of temporary worker or student. 2,300 visas expiring before 30 April without an on-hand visa application to renew
study.
VISITORS Around 64,000 visitors are here on a visa waiver or general visitor visa, and are Low — Most should have means on-hand or on call offshore to support themselves.
(83,000) likely to want to go home.
May need facilitation to find temporary accommodation.
Some may not be able to cover expenses for a longer period than anticipated
and may not have travel insurance. 9,600 visitor visas expire by 30 April without an on-hand visa application to remain.
Around 16,000 visitors are partners or children of a person residing in New Low -— likely to be able to draw on own or partners’ resources. However, some may
Zealand. Likely to want to stay and can probably access support from partners. need support where family resources are affected by COVID.
WORKERS Around 67,000 are here for skilled work or work-to-residence. Many are likely to Low — many will have employment and financial reserves, others may need income
(209,000) want to stay in New Zealand. They are likely to have access to accommodation, — support
but income may be affected by COVID.
630 visas expiring by 30 April without an on-hand visa application.
Around 45,000 are here for a relationship, and are likely to want to stay in NZ. Low — by the nature of the visa, they should be in dual income relationships and
They are likely to have access to accommodation. Incomes may be impacted by _ able to draw on partners resources
COVID, though they may have a support system here to draw from.
460 visas expiring before 30 April without an on-hand visa application.
Around 34,000 are working holiday makers, who may want to return home, and Low — small group may be facing job loss in lower paid affected sectors like
are likely to require accommodation and/or financial support if caught between hospitality, without financial resources built up. Many will be working in horticulture
jobs or have been laid off. or other essential services. May need accommodation support.
660 visas expiring by 30 April, however should have financial means.
Around 10,000 are RSE workers here for seasonal work and are due to return Low - In pastoral care arrangements. Options include to support workers to return
home soon, but may be unable to. Employers are responsible for providing home, or to extend visas/re-deploy to other employers.
accommodation and pastoral care. Incomes are likely unaffected as food
production is classed as essential. 920 visas expiring by 30 April without an on-hand visa application.
Page 17 of 17
