SENSITIVE
34.2 the majority are temporary visa holders who are here on a more settled
basis. This includes students, temporary migrant workers, and the
partners or dependents of migrant workers (on visitor visas).
35 Table 1 provides an overview of these different visa groups’ situation, potential
support needs and available support options, with more detail provided in
following paragraphs.
Table 1. Foreign nationals temporarily in New Zealand — potential support needs
Short term visitors Settled temporary migrants
Tourists, working holiday makers Student, temporary work visas, seasonal workers, partners
or dependents on visitor visas
e About a quarter of visa holders. e Majority of temporary visa holders.
e Stranded in New Zealand: likely had imminent e Not stranded. Most had planned to be in New Zealand
plans to return home or bring that forward, but for months/years, some may now wish to return home.
ith pl isrupt ir routes cl .
with plans disrupted as air routes close down e May be well placed with accommodation and financial
e Typically tourists or working holiday makers, support (which is a visa condition).
th h to return home.
some other types who were due to return home e Need good communication to stay put until lockdown
e Being stranded may present additional costs to completes or evacuation arrangements in place.
this group, but many will have the financial _ . . .
means on hand (or available to call on offshore) e Expiring visas have been extended through Epidemic
to meet a shorter-term extended stay. Notice. They remain lawful and have relaxed work
rights conditions.
Support e If evacuation is slow, even visitors with financial e Some may have lost employment and income due to
potentially means may need non-financial assistance to find the economic impacts of COVID-19.
required ocr gommodation or support to comply e If low earners or in non-essential services sectors
‘ could face financial difficulties while waiting to retum
e __In the first instance, this group can look to travel home or find alternate employment (if they have open
insurance or consular support from their work rights).
countries.
°
e Where this is not available, and to manage the
public health risk of people movements during
lockdown, support can be provided by TAS, and
(as a last resort) Local Authorities / CDEM
Groups. . . '
e Access to Business Continuity Package (won't help
e (s9(2)(f)(iv), s9(2)(g)(i) those unemployed), TAS, and as a last resort, CDEM
Groups.
e s9(2)(f)(iv), s9(2)(g)(i)
36 Annex 2 provides a more detailed breakdown of these different groups of foreign
nationals estimated to be in New Zealand and their comparative likelihood of
needing to seek support and available avenues for support under current
settings. This is informed by the number with visas expiring in the next month
and the assumption people have the means to support themselves at least until
the end of their visa (the basis on which applications are assessed and granted).
Managing short term visitors stranded in New Zealand
37 Many short term visitors to New Zealand will have a safe place to stay and the
means to support themselves directly (or resources offshore to call on). To date,
Page 6 of 17
