there have been minimal reports of tourists or working holiday makers unable to
find accommodation or fund immediate living costs. This is higher in some areas
with higher concentrations of eg working holiday makers who would have been
working in hospitality and tourism sectors (such as Queenstown). Even in these
locations, there are relatively few acute cases at this early stage.

38 Some of these people are becoming increasingly anxious to leave, with their
governments seeking to facilitate their evacuation. The most reported anxiety is
related to this group being unable to secure flights home, or for those who have
booked flights, but finding these are being cancelled with a financial loss.

39 The longer it takes to evacuate these stranded foreign nationals, the more likely it
is that support may be required to ensure they can shelter in place. Where short
term visitors do not have the means to support themselves:

39.1 consular assistance from their own governments and travel insurance
should be the first port of call

39.2 some may also be able to continue work to support themselves in
essential services (eg working holiday makers with jobs in horticulture)

39.3 limited support can be made available to match these people to suitable
accommodation (eg via the TAS), to access emergency healthcare, and,
as a last resort access to emergency welfare support (eg accommodation
support, food) through regional CDEM Groups.

40 These measures would be temporary and undertaken on an extraordinary basis,
in light of the overriding public health interests associated with a pandemic. If we
do not achieve widespread compliance with limitations on people movements, we
risk having to keep Level 4 in place for longer.

41 Overall, based on requests for assistance to date and assumptions about
circumstances, we consider only a small group of these short term visitors may
need anything more than facilitative support during a 4 week self-isolation period.
The size of this group would grow if routes out of New Zealand remain difficult for
longer periods and assisted evacuation is slow or not possible for some time.

42 If agreed, communication of these measures should be clear that this support is
time limited and that this does not create a precedent for future situations.

Consular assistance and insurance as the first port of call

43 Foreign diplomatic and consular missions have responsibility to provide consular
assistance to their nationals in New Zealand.

s6(b)
Should Ministers agree to provide assistance to toreign
nationals in New Zealand, officials would note in messaging to the diplomatic
Page 7 of 17
