Annex 1 — Approach to managing assisted evacuations of foreign nationals from
New Zealand

1. Ministers requested a framework allowing stranded foreign nationals to leave
New Zealand under COVID-19 Alert Level 4. It needs to work seamlessly with the
current process for supporting the reintegration of New Zealanders returning from
offshore. Both processes need to work in a way that respects the public health
priority of breaking the chain of community transmission to protect our people and
prevent overwhelming the health system.

2. This proposed approach and process in this Annex have been approved by:

e Mike Bush, head of the Operations Command Centre, and
e Chris Seed, Chief Executive of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

3. The overview paper sets out the context: an estimated 383,000 temporary visitors in
New Zealand with around a quarter estimated to be stranded See eo ee
nationals who may wish to leave. Governments and airlines $6(), s9(2) (ba)

have made approaches to the New Zealand Government
about assistance through foreign government assisted charter flights, or enhanced
commercial flights, for those nationals to leave.

4. While it is hard to get precise informations6(b)

5. The attached flow diagram sets out the issues currently confronting those seeking to
travel internationally. There are two key break points, regardless of whether the
flight in question is an extant commercial flight, or a foreign government assisted
charter flight.

e The ability to take land-based transport, other than a private vehicle, to the
airport of departure in New Zealand

e The ability to take a domestic flight (commercial or charter) to get to the airport
of departure

6. Both of the above are currently not permitted under Alert Level 4. A dedicated team
is working to establish whether means can be devised to allow them to be resolved,
freeing up travel while protecting the overriding public health driver and so realising
the benefits of the Alert Level 4 lockdown. As well as capability —- can such solutions
be found — we need to consider capacity — can airports and the structures around
them cope with significantly increased travel than that currently happening under
Level 4.

Page 13 of 17
