s6(a), $9(2)(g)(i)

21

22 All options for assistance come with considerable practical and operational
challenges and limitations. These include a lack of comprehensive data about the
number and location of New Zealanders overseas who may need financial
assistance in the future. Of the 23,331 people registered on the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Trade’s SafeTravel database as at 28 March, 6,369
individuals or tours are registered as “travelling” or on a cruise. The remaining
16,962 are registered as “residing” in the country they are in.

23 However, pre-COVID-19 estimates were that there were around 80,000 New
Zealanders were travelling offshore on a short-term basis and some 800,000
residing offshore. These numbers are likely to have reduced somewhat, as
many New Zealanders have made their way home in recent weeks, but may not
have updated their SafeTravel records.

Evacuation of foreign nationals stranded in New Zealand

24 Border agencies are already being stretched to manage the arrival of New
Zealanders returning from overseas. Seeking to facilitate the departure of
thousands of foreign nationals at the same time risks compromising public health
imperatives and will exacerbate pressure on the system.

25 Ministers last week agreed not to support evacuation flights for foreign nationals
until April. This has provided much needed time to support the flow of people in
and out of the system.

Some departures may be possible while commercial options remain available

26 Weare currently allowing planned commercial international air services to depart
New Zealand. With most commercial international departure services ending by
31 March (and very limited options through Air New Zealand and possibly Qatar
Airways through April), we advise that if people are already in the city of their
departure, they should be able to take a private vehicle to the airport to leave on
these flights. Just as people returning to New Zealand can use a private vehicle
to return to their place of self-isolation. Domestic air travel to connect to these
flights is not currently permitted under Alert Level 4, but we are working through
options to support departures from more remote areas.

27 ~ Overseas nationals with tickets on confirmed departing international flights (either
commercial or charter) will be allowed to board provided that they do not meet
established case definition criteria, i.e. they are not symptomatic nor have they
had close contact with confirmed cases in the past fourteen days.

Page 4 of 17
