corps the continued expectation that the primary consular burden remains the
responsibility of the sending state.

Accommodation

44 MBIE activated its Temporary Accommodation Service (TAS) on 20 March 2020,
to provide accommodation support for people unable to self-isolate. As at 1300
hours on 29 March 2020, TAS has around 100 active accommodation
placements, with a further 100 households registered to the service. Support is
being provided to those who usually reside here and those who do not.

45 TAS is providing a matching service to find suitable accommodation for those
with the ability to pay, as well as providing financial assistance for those who
cannot. Clear information and guidelines are being provided to hotels around the
self-isolation of guests. TAS has established an accommodation supply register
of around 4,500 hotel rooms and 2,000 motorhomes situated around the country.

46 TAS is coordinating with the Ministry of Social Development (MSD) and Ministry
of Housing and Urban Development’s work to secure motel accommodation for
rough sleepers and other vulnerable people for self-isolation. TAS is working with
MSD to develop processes for people who may have ongoing accommodation
requirements following their self-isolation or lock-down period.

Healthcare

47 People who have or who are suspected of having an infectious or quarantinable
disease (ie COVID-19) are eligible for funded services relating to the
surveillance, diagnosis, treatment, follow-up and contact tracing services to the
extent appropriate to manage the public health risk. All travellers waiting for
repatriation flights can access free assessment at general practice and hospital
related care.

48 Those not eligible for other publicly funded services have to pay for them. Many
may have travel or health insurance but this is not mandatory for all visitors. Fee
paying foreign students must hold acceptable insurance as a condition of their
visa from the period of their enrolment until the expiry of their student visa and
most Working Holiday Visa applicants are required to obtain medical and
comprehensive hospitalisation insurance. RSE visa holders must have and
maintain medical insurance whilst in New Zealand. UK and Australian citizens on
a temporary stay requiring urgent treatment will usually be eligible under the
reciprocal agreement with those countries.

49

there is no legal liability to provide such care and

DHBs are not funded to provide such care. DHBs may also breach their duties
under the New Zealand Public Health and Disability Act if they provide such care
to non-eligible persons without payment (such as at section 41 - obligation to act
in a financially responsible aren) bola) eC

If emergency care is required by ineligible persons at a DHB, it will
usually be provided on a fee-paying basis.

Page 8 of 17
