7. If these issues could be resolved, foreign nationals could use extant commercial
flights to travel home, if those flights corresponded to their desired destination. At
present, the schedule of commercial flights until mid-April per week is as follows:

e Air New Zealand — Los Angeles (3), Hong Kong (2), Shanghai (2), Sydney (3),
Melbourne (2), Brisbane (2), Rarotonga (1), Niue (1)
e Qatar Airways — Doha (7) with onward connections, including into Europe

8. If these connections continue in place, passengers would have access to
destinations in Europe, the Middle East, the United States, Australia and certain
Pacific Island countries. The increased passenger flow out of New Zealand would
improve the viability of commercial flights, including for the purposes of freight
options for essential goods.

9. Itis unlikely that commercial pathways alone would be a viable means of managing
demand from foreign nationals, and their governments, to facilitate departures — at
least in a timeframe that would meet their expectations, given potential numbers and
the cost of commercial air tickets.

If we resolve the land-based
transport check point, most stranded foreign nationals, assuming they are within
driving distance of Auckland and Christchurch, would be able to leave.

10. It is very clear that the process of evacuating stranded foreign nationals needs to
work closely with the process of managing those New Zealanders still returning
home;|/s6(a) The new measure
whereby New Zealanders arriving in Auckland can take dedicated flights to their city
of domicile without going through 14 days self-isolation in Auckland is still being
stood up and implemented. This step reduces significant pressure on managed
facilities around Auckland Airport for self-isolation and quarantine. But the process
of moving arrivals through the airport in a way which respects health protocols
supporting Alert Level 4, including physical distancing, will slow airport use and
capacity from normal levels. Increasing outflows of passengers through the airport
on international flights will need to be managed so as not to negatively impact the
repatriation process and management of health protocols.

11:s9(2)(F)(iv), s9(2)(g) (i)

Page 14 of 17
