Sensitive

17 March 2020

Minister of Revenue

Draft Cabinet paper - COVID-19 - Order in Council to exclude the Wage

Subsidy and Leave Payment from the application of GST

de This report asks you to approve and lodge the attached Cabinet paper with the
Cabinet Office by 10am Thursday 19 March for consideration at the Cabinet meeting
on Monday 23 March 2020,

2. The Cabinet paper seeks Cabinet’s agreement to an Order in Council which amends
the Goods and Services Tax (Grants and Subsidies) Order 1992 to exclude the
COVID-19 Wage Subsidy and the COVID-19 Leave Payment from the application of
GST. The scope and design of these payments were agreed to by Cabinet on 16
March 2020, and it was noted at the time Cabinet made decisions that the tax
implications of these payments would need to be determined, with possible
subsequent amendments being necessary.

3. The amendments will enable GST-registered businesses to use the full amount of
the payments received under either of the schemes to adjust to the impact of
COVID-19 and provide financial support to their employees.

4. In absence of the Order in Council, GST-registered businesses would be required to
account for output tax on the payments received. The amendments ensure fairness
between businesses that are registered for GST and those that are not, and will
minimise compliance costs. These amendments are consistent with the approach
taken for the wage subsidies developed in response to the Hurunui/Kaikoura and
Canterbury earthquakes.

53 It is proposed that the Order in Council be made as soon as practicable to ensure
that the GST treatment of the payments is clear. Furthermore, as the Order in
Council cannot have retrospective effect, we propose an amendment be included in
the Bill containing tax measures in response to COVID-19 to specify that the Order
in Council applies in respect of payments made before the Order in Council comes
into force. This will ensure that any payments made between 17 March 2020 and
the date the Order in Council comes into force will also not be subject to GST.

6. We have also provided your office with speaking notes for you to take to Cabinet
on 23 March 2020 which cover the purpose of, and reasons for, the Order in Council.

Fiscal implications

A The recommendations in this report do not have a revenue or any other fiscal effect.

Consultation

8. The Treasury was consulted and agrees with the recommendations in this report.
The Ministry of Social Development and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and
Employment were informed.

1R2020/159: Draft Cabinet paper ~ COVID-19 ~ Order in Council to exclude the Wage Subsidy and the Leave

Payment from the application of GST Page 1 of 2
