Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs
Office of the Minister for Social Development

Chair

Cabinet COVID-19 Committee

FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR NEW ZEALANDERS TEMPORARILY OVERSEAS OR

DOMICILED IN AUSTRALIA WHO ARE IN FINANCIAL DISTRESS DUE TO THE

COVID-19 PANDEMIC

Proposal

1 This paper gives a summary of the issues and seeks decisions on options to support New
Zealanders temporarily overseas or domiciled in Australia who are in financial distress due to
the COVID-19 pandemic. Key measures proposed here are to continue to: pay benefits to
New Zealanders overseas; provide New Zealanders overseas with consular assistance; and
advocate for Australia to extend further assistance to New Zealanders domiciled there. The
paper does not propose any further measures at this stage.

Executive summary

2 In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and widespread border closures restricting
international travel across the globe, some New Zealanders have been stranded overseas
and are sheltering in place while they wait for an opportunity to return to New Zealand. These
are New Zealanders who left New Zealand for less than twelve months for purposes such as
a holiday, study or to take up a temporary work visa.

3 Due to the unexpected disruption to their travel, over time a proportion of this group may not
be able to meet the additional costs of their prolonged stay overseas. In the first instance,
New Zealanders in financial difficulty overseas as a result of COVID-19 are expected to call
on their bank, insurance provider, and family and friends for assistance. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) provides consular support to New Zealanders overseas via
a 24/7 call centre/consular duty phone in Wellington and through its network of overseas
posts. This includes access to financial support, usually through an emergency loan after all
other avenues have been exhausted. MFAT expects to provide more of these loans as a
result of COVID-19, particularly for more vulnerable New Zealanders. The amount of the
loans varies:

_, -- +---,---. Generally, the amounts are either smaller amounts to get by for a few days
while waiting for an Emergency Travel Document, for example, or a larger amount to cover a
flight home.

4 Some New Zealanders temporarily overseas may be in receipt of New Zealand
Superannuation (NZS), Veteran's Pension (VP), a main benefit, Orphan’s Benefit,
Unsupported Childs Benefit and/or supplementary assistance such as Accommodation
Supplement and Child Disability Allowance. Under ordinary circumstances these payments
cease if their absence exceeds 26 weeks for NZS/VP or 28 days for benefits. There are 5,165
superannuitants overseas (including 764 with suspended payments), and 2,078 beneficiaries
(including 1,871 with suspended payments) (further details are provided in Annex 1). We
recommend that payments can be resumed from the date a person expected to return to New
Zealand, with the flexibility to resume payments from an earlier date for people in severe
hardship or not to resume payments where it is identified that people no longer qualify.
