5 While most of the people stranded overseas will likely have financial resources to manage in
the short term, they may run into financial difficulty if required to stay overseas for longer than
expected. $9(2)(f)(iv)

6 New Zealanders living in Australia have been included in some Australian Government
COVID-19 support measures, notably its “Job Keeper” wage subsidy scheme announced this
week, a very welcome development. Officials are still assessing the impact of that decision,
though it seems likely to help significant numbers of New Zealand workers. New Zealanders
in Australia have also been allowed early access to their Australian superannuation savings if
they are in financial difficulty due to COVID-19.

7 Some New Zealanders in Australia are still likely to lose work because of COVID-19, if their
companies are ineligible for the subsidy, or choose to reduce staff regardless, or if they do not
qualify for other reasons. Because of their visa status, many New Zealanders have little to no
access to the Australian welfare system if they do become sick or unemployed. Officials
recommend continuing to advocate that the Australian Government extend social security
support to such New Zealanders.|s6(a)|

_ - ; . _, _Australia's Social
Services Minister, Anne Ruston, has been granted the powers to enable s6(a support to be
offered to individuals and groups of visa holders (potentially including New Zealanders).
Some support has previously been extended to New Zealanders during state emergencies,
including during the recent major bushfires.

8 s9(2)(f)(iv)

Background

9  MFAT's Consular Division and overseas posts are receiving an increasing number of calls for
assistance from New Zealanders overseas as countries’ border measures become stricter in
response to COVID-19. Most calls relate to New Zealanders having difficulty returning to New
Zealand. There have also been many calls from New Zealanders resident in Australia unable
to access Australian Government support. Officials expect the needs of at least some of this
group will be met through access to the wage subsidy scheme announced by the Australian
government this week.

10 Due to border restrictions, it is not possible for every New Zealander temporarily overseas to
return home as soon as they would like. Some New Zealanders who had intended to be
absent from New Zealand for less than 12 months now find themselves needing to remain
overseas. Normally around 80,000 New Zealanders will be overseas travelling at any point in
time, but the group affected is likely to be much smaller now as many people returned to New
Zealand as COVID-19 started to spread. People in this group include:

e travellers (a small portion of whom are MSD clients, including 5,165 NZS or VP
recipients without portability and 2,078 people receiving a benefit)
