Human rights implications

43 This paper has no immediate human rights implications in terms of the rights and freedoms
affirmed in the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 and the Human Rights Act 1993.

Legislative implications

44 A domestic epidemic management notice was issued under section 8(1) of the Epidemic
Preparedness Act 2006 on Monday 23 March 2020, and took effect from Wednesday 25
March 2020. This gives MSD the power to amend the legislative requirements relating to
clients who are absent from New Zealand temporarily and unable to return.

45 In addition, Immediate Modification Orders (IMOs) under section 15 of the Epidemic
Preparedness Act 2006 (through which restrictions or requirements in enactments can be
modified by Order in Council) can now be made by the Governor-General. This may provide a
mechanism to extend payments administered by MSD.

Regulatory impact and compliance cost statement

46 Not applicable.

Publicity

47 Officials will develop key messages on provision of assistance to MSD clients who are unable
to return to New Zealand. Officials are also updating key messages to take account of the
Australian announcement on a COVID-19 wage subsidy scheme.

Proactive Release

48 MFAT and MSD will proactively publish this paper. Any redactions made will be consistent
with the Official Information Act 1982.

Recommendations

49 It is recommended that the Committee:

1 _ note that travel restrictions resulting from the global COVID-19 response mean a high
likelinood of travelling New Zealanders being stranded offshore, who may lack access to
financial or other resources to support themselves, with consequent health and welfare
risks

2 __ note that MFAT consular advice is that New Zealanders who are not able to return home
should take steps to ensure their safety in place, and contact their travel insurer, bank,
family and friends in the first instance if they are facing financial difficulties

3 agree that stranded New Zealanders overseas should continue to follow the advice
above, with consular support available including the possibility of an emergency loan

$9(2)(g)(ii)

4 note that in the current circumstances, MFAT consular officials are taking a more flexible
approach to the provision of financial support, so that individuals are not prevented from
