New Zealand superannuitants who were travelling overseas and are unable to return to New

Zealand

16 There are approximately 4,400 New Zealand Superannuation (NZS) or Veterans’ Pension
(VP) recipients currently overseas (and a further 764 superannuitants and veterans with
suspended payments). We recommend that payments can be resumed from the date a
person expected to return to New Zealand, with the flexibility to resume payments from an
earlier date for people in severe hardship or not to resume payments where it is identified that
people no longer qualify.

17 Generally, NZS and VP clients can receive payment for a maximum of 26 weeks while
overseas, provided they return to New Zealand within 30 weeks. NZS and VP clients who
intend to travel overseas for longer than 26 weeks, or whose return to New Zealand has been
delayed for longer than 26 weeks, can apply for payment under the general portability
provisions (or under a reciprocal social security agreement).

18 Under section 27 of the New Zealand Superannuation and Retirement Income Act 2001
(NZSRIA) superannuitants who are unable to return to New Zealand due to circumstances
beyond their control are able to apply to be paid under the general portability provisions.
There may be a gap in payment for clients who do not contact MSD until after their 26 weeks
period has ended and the rate of payment is proportionate to the person's periods of
residence between the ages of 20 and 65, so they may receive a reduced or nil rate and other
supplementary payments are not payable overseas.

Beneficiaries who were travelling overseas and are unable to return to New Zealand

19 There are 207 beneficiary clients (and 1,871 with suspended payments) receiving a main
benefit, Orphan’s Benefit, Unsupported Child’s Benefit and/or supplementary assistance (eg
Accommodation Supplement and Child Disability Allowance) currently overseas.

20 Some main benefit recipients (including Youth Payment recipients) can continue to receive
payments for up to 28 days in a 52-week period if they notify MSD of their intended absence
prior to departure. Main benefit clients with work obligations can continue to receive payments
for up to 28 days with an approved travel reason. Supplementary assistance can also be paid
for up to 28 days in a 52 week period. Where overseas absence has been notified and
approved (if applicable) and a person's return to New Zealand has been prevented due to
unforeseen circumstances outside of their control, MSD has discretion to extend that
individual’s payments.

21 Where the person was receiving payments prior to their departure, we recommend that the
government pay a main benefit or Orphan’s Benefit, Unsupported Child’s Benefit and/or
supplementary assistance for people who are absent from NZ and unable to return during the
epidemic until it can reasonably be expected that they can return to New Zealand.

22 As noted abover, in addition to the 207 beneficiaries currenly in receipt of benefits and
supplementary assistance overseas, there are also 1,871 beneficiaries offshore with
suspended payments. We recommend that payments can be resumed from the date a person
expected to return to New Zealand, with the flexibility to resume payments from an earlier
date for people in severe hardship or not to resume payments where it is identified that
people no longer qualify.
