e other New Zealanders overseas on temporary work visas such as working holiday
visas.

MFAT consular support (including financial support) remains the best mechanism

for supporting New Zealanders stranded overseas

11 We recommend that at this stage, New Zealanders in difficulty overseas as a result of
COVID-19 continue to rely on consular support. MFAT currently provides consular support to
New Zealanders overseas in the form of a 24/7 call centre/consular duty phone in Wellington
and through its network of overseas posts.‘

12 Current advice on the SafeTravel website to New Zealanders overseas is to not travel and,
recognising that many will not be able to come home, for these people to take steps to stay
safely where they are. The advice for New Zealanders staying safely where they are includes
complying with local isolation or quarantine requirements, following the advice of the World
Health Organization, and finding out how to access local healthcare in case it becomes
necessary to do so. New Zealanders are also encouraged to find suitable accommodation,
and to be prepared for logistical and financial disruption.

13 In extremely difficult situations, MFAT is also able to provide short term financial assistance
by way of a loan to New Zealanders in distress overseas when all other avenues (banks,
insurance provider, family and friends) have been exhausted. In the current circumstances,
MFAT has instructed its consular officials to take a more open and flexible approach to the
provision of this financial support, so that individuals are not prevented from returning to New
Zealand quickly, or securing appropriate accommodation or health services, for example.

$9(2)(g)(ii)

Generally, the amounts are either smaller amounts to get by for a few days while
waiting for an Emergency Travel Document, for example, or a larger amount to cover a flight
home.

14 's9(2)(g)(ii)

15 MFAT will monitor and report the uptake of these forms of financial assistance, and may
require additional fundings9(2)(g) (ii)

‘ Consular support generally involves giving advice, with the aim of helping people to help themselves;

helping with a lost or stolen passport; helping contact relatives or friends to request emergency funds;

providing a list of English-speaking lawyers, and helping contact family and friends, if someone is detained or

arrested; helping contact family and friends if someone is ill or injured; helping with arrangements following a

death overseas; in certain circumstances, providing notarial services such as witnessing affidavits, statutory

declarations and other documents for use under New Zealand law; helping during crises,such as civil unrest
and natural disasters. In the case of particularly vulnerable New Zealanders, the support is likely to be more

“hands-on”.
