36 Officials will continue to monitor the situation of New Zealanders in Australia and provide
advice as needed.

Capacity issues for MSD and MFAT

37 s9(2)(F)(iv), $9(2)(g) (i)

_ For MSD, these challenges principally relate to
capacity. Officials advise that MSD’s service delivery is currently under pressure, with the
number of domestic claimants for support increasing each day. MSD is also administering the
wage subsidy scheme and other COVID-19 response measures.

38 There would be significant operational constraints and wider system integrity risks associated
with MSD administering any further payments. |s9(2)(f)(iv), $9(2)(g)(i)

Although MSD has a
current process for paying benefit support to an overseas bank account for known clients, this
is far more complex and resource-intensive compared to making payments to a New Zealand
bank account. 59(2)(f\(iv), s9(2)(a)(i)

Cross-agency support is
likely required as there are currently significant operational constraints on MSD's Service
Delivery group.

39 Capacity concerns are also relevant to MFAT. MFAT consular services are currently fully
stretched in Wellington and at posts, with some posts operating with decreased numbers or
having had to temporarily close. Staff are focused on responding to a record number of
enquiries and requests from New Zealanders abroad. A spike in demand for emergency loans
on the basis of an Undertaking to Repay would therefore pose operational challenges,
including the challenge of consular staff getting the money to New Zealanders in a lock-down
environment where it is not possible to use cash.

40 's9(2)(f)(iv), s9(2)(g)(i)

MFAT’s role would need to be limited to providing advice based on information provided by
MSD, linking New Zealanders with the appropriate MSD office or verifying documents in
accordance with usual procedures. As travel restrictions and health risks mean that a face-to-
face process is unlikely to be feasible, there would need to be a simplified process
established for vetting documents.

Consultation

41 The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet (Policy Advisory Group) have been consulted.

Financial implications

42 The decision to continue to pay current MSD beneficiaries while they are overseas and
unable to return will have no impact on the fiscal position in the Crown accounts. This is
because the forecasts did not anticipate people ceasing benefits due to COVID-19 travel
restrictions and, without the influence of COVID-19, these beneficiaries would continue to be
paid in New Zealand.
