Go hard, Go early, Stay the course — scaling up preparedness Page 1
Border restrictions are providing New Zealand with time to prepare for potential outbreaks of COVID-19 in our country. We must: COVID-19 Epidemiology curves
> harness increased scientific understanding of cowp-19 to formulate evidence-based policies Orange curve: xyinpromatte‘cases.3:6 milion; hespraleation 124,100;1cu 19/400
» learn from other countries about how best to contain and slow spread Blue curve: symptomatic cases 2.7 million, hospitalisation 92,600, ICU 14,400
> apply innovative and flexible solutions (technological and policy)
> increase capability and capacity in the health system We can lower the curve (ie lower transmission) through public health measures and by informing and preparing the population
> inform and prepare all New Zealanders, especially high-risk and vulnerable groups
Sack e L - Tedleal ae , ce “ffl Sis ts a5 a erane noni lo Modelling results from University of Otago Wellington, University of Tiibingen (Germany), Epimos GmbH (Germany),
BEE BON EADIE NE: WOES IES ate ES MER MONE HSH tonsa eae RL Mate one ean tea iat Posen toate Landesgesundheitsamt Baden-Wiirttemberg (Germany) and ExploSYS GmbH (Germany).
® get all workplaces to test and sharpen up continuity plans. Caution: The results of models vary widely. They are built on data from locations that have had major outbreaks (esp China and Italy).
Key assumptions: 3% of symptomatic cases require hospitalisation; 15% of hospitalised cases require ICU care.
The effectiveness of border restrictions is likely to diminish rapidly should widespread community outbreaks occur in New Zealand.
Also, over time, border restrictions are likely to pose mounting economic costs through restrictions of movement.
1,000,000
Our preparedness is determined by three key things: 3 900,000
(i) the capability and capacity of the health system 8 ,
(ii) policy and operational settings in the health system as well as coordination across the system 2 800,000
(iii) an informed and prepared population, especially high-risk and vulnerable groups. 700,000 Uncontrolled
= spread assumed
An informed and prepared population can (i) flatten the curve through lowering transmission and (ii) better respond to public health 2 600,000 begin on 1 April
measures which will increase physical distancing and restrict movement. = 500,000 399
# 400,000
—
2 300,000 Mid-winter in
. Testing, Policy and Health 2 NZ on day 106
Equipment . . , , -2___ 200,000 ‘on day
surveillance Infection operational settings —_ ,
Workforce and sind control | = system —— —Es00,000
meaicines monitoring ystem coordinatio capacity < -
SAR SFSRSERSAKRIFRSSHRSSASGHRIRGSASARSS
° POA A SAS A I ARNAN ANNAN OH
Care in the community (including in people’s homes) is required, particularly when health system capacity is exceeded. Bays dince'commnundiy.Semsniislon begins
——RO=1.5 —=——R0=2.0
Increased readiness helps us flatten the curve by lowering the infection rate, and minimising severe cases and deaths
Case severity for COVID-19
% of
. Determined by: physical distancing (cancelling cases Hospitalisation required
Maximise _ | ss gathiann sche ions Worl g WOW Hone, —<$>
closing schools) and travel restrictions a t
Taaeae t
Say '
+ Personal hygiene, contact tracing, quarantine, Deter i oe, '
surveillance (i) health system % ‘
ity and ‘. 5
Determined by health system performance, Peron ances . ‘
in particular primary care, and, especially (iyearanaithie $ 5
when demand for health services is high, aris % 5
[Moderate cases] i ity (includi t 1
| care in the community (including at home) (iii) vulnerabilities \ os
of populations; . en in the
' Ahigher peak in
eeeente lanl
of population ' will increase case
\. § severity (ie bring about
ot :
Determined by health system capacity and + . the dotted line)
performance, in particular secondary care Kee,
Minimise 5 Blea,
'
Mild Moderate Severe SSL
Severity
AOG COVID-19 Strategy and Policy, 17 March 2020
