Brad Ward Hon Dr Megan Woods
Deputy Chief Executive, Place-based Minister of Housing
Policies and Programmes

Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern

Prime Minister

Background

21. Yesterday in response to Covid-19, the Prime Minister announced a freeze on residential rent
increases, and protection for tenants from having tenancies terminated.

22. The purpose of these Residential Tenancies Act (RTA) measures is to the greatest extent
possible to sustain tenancies and protect tenants from becoming homeless at this time. This
will help ensure that:

e for public health reasons families and individuals are able to self-isolate, and to stay
home and maintain physical distancing

e inthe short term, families and individuals who are tenants do not lose their home due to
a drop in income related to job losses through Covid-19.

23. Sustaining tenants in their current homes will help prevent further pressure on our welfare
system at this time. s 9(2)(fy(iv)

24. Atthe same time, it is not acceptable for tenants to abuse the current situation by refusing to
pay rent when they have the capacity to do so, causing significant property damage, or
significant anti-social behaviour. The measures proposed try to balance protection of the
interests of tenants, landlords, and the wider community.

Application of proposed Residential Tenancies Act amendments

25. We understand that Ministers intend the measures to take effect immediately. The
Parliamentary Counsel Office and Ministry of Justice recommend that:

e the measures take effect from 1:30 PM on 23 March 2020 (i.e. from the time of the
Prime Minister's announcement)
e the rent freeze apply for six months
e changes to termination provisions apply for an initial period of three months, with further
three month extensions possible by Order in Council. The rationale for the shorter
period is that this is a significant change to current landlord property rights.
Note there is an error in paragraph 25. The Parliamentary Counsel Office and
Ministry of Justice did not make the recommendation noted under the first bullet
point of para 25.
[In Confidence — BRF19/20030594] 6
