a. __ take into account whether the tenant is making reasonable endeavours to pay
rent, and

b. balance the interests of the tenant and landlord in deciding whether termination is
justified.

35. The same rent arrears options apply to boarding house tenancies.

36. Option 1 comes with significant impacts on landlords. Landlords may:

e have difficulty meeting their mortgage payments
e have reduced ability to pay for their own needs, if they are relying on the rental income.

37. We note that the inability to pay rent may not always be due to Covid-19 related income loss.
There is also a potential for misuse, if tenants are able to pay rent, but choose not to. To
mitigate this, we are proposing the tenant continue to be liable for the rent arrears. The rent
will continue to be due, and the landlord could seek payment through the Tribunal.

38. s 9(2)(9)(i)

39. To mitigate any unintended consequences, officials also propose that the Tenancy Tribunal
has discretion to consider any exceptional circumstances that may apply with regard to a
landlord application to terminate a tenancy. The Tenancy Tribunal will have the power to
determine the appropriate notice that tenants will receive in the circumstances.

Boarding house tenancies: termination of tenancies

40. Ina boarding house, tenants have their own boarding house tenancy agreement with their
landlord to rent single rooms or a sleeping area within a room they share with other tenants.
They also share any facilities, eg the kitchen or bathroom. A boarding house is occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by at least six tenants, but may be much larger.

41. There are some key features of boarding houses that mean they require different treatment:

e Termination provisions for boarding house tenancies are currently different from other
tenancies. Notice periods are shorter.

e Tenants share communal spaces where there may be a higher risk of exposure to
Covid-19.

e The populations living in boarding houses tend to be more vulnerable.

42. To align with the general approach taken above, we propose a temporary three month freeze
on terminations in boarding houses (with further three month extensions possible by Order in
Council) but with exemptions to cover situations where other occupants may be put in
danger.

Current termination grounds Changes proposed
The landlord of a boarding house may Amend so that the landlord can only
terminate a boarding house tenancy terminate if the tenant has:

Immediately, if the tenant has e rent arrears (consistent with the

(i) caused, or threatened to cause, serious options presented for other
damage to the premises; or tenancies)

. e caused, or threatened to cause,

(ii) endangered, or threatened to serious damage to the premises; or
endanger, people or property; or

[In Confidence — BRF19/20030594] 8
