3riefing
Covid-19: Residential Tenancies Act amendments
For: Minister of Housing, Prime Minister
Date: 24 March 2020 Security level: In Confidence
Priority: Urgent Report number: BRF19/20030594

Purpose

1. Yesterday in response to Covid-19, the Prime Minister announced a freeze on residential rent
increases, and increased protection for tenants from having tenancies terminated. This
briefing seeks agreement to policy and implementation details, to be included in a proposed
omnibus Covid-19 response Bill which will amend the Residential Tenancies Act 1986 (the
RTA).

2 s 9(2)(f)(iv)

Executive summary

3. The purpose of these RTA measures is to sustain tenancies to the greatest extent possible
and to protect tenants from becoming homeless at this time. This will help ensure that:

e for public health reasons families and individuals are able to self-isolate, and to stay
home and maintain physical distancing

e inthe short term, families and individuals who are tenants do not lose their home due to
a drop in income related to job losses through Covid-19.

4. Sustaining tenants in their current homes will help prevent further pressure on our welfare
system at this time. s 9(2)(f)(Iv)

5. At the same time, it is not acceptable for tenants to abuse the current situation by refusing to
pay rent when they have the capacity to do so, causing significant property damage, or
significant anti-social behaviour. The measures proposed try to balance protection of the
interests of tenants, landlords, and the wider community.

6. | We understand that Ministers intend the measures to take effect immediately for a time
period of six months. The Parliamentary Counsel Office and Ministry of Justice recommend
that:

e the measures take effect from 1:30 PM on 23 March 2020 (i.e. from the time of the
Prime Minister's announcement)

e the rent increase freeze apply for six months,

e changes to termination provisions apply for an initial period of three months, with one
further three month extension possible by Order in Council. The rationale for the shorter
period is that this is a significant change to current landlord property rights.

Note there is an error in paragraph 6. The Parliamentary Counsel Office and Ministry of
Justice did not make the recommendation noted under the first bullet point of para 6.
[In Confidence — BRF19/20030594] 1
