Brief: B20-0067
been held for varying amounts of time. The length of time they are held, along
with the conditions in which they are held, influences their survivability.

Impacts on the Rock Lobster Industry

8. It is uncertain at this time how long the issues with the Chinese market will
continue, or whether restrictions on exports will ensue. There is a possibility that
these conditions may persist for some time.

9g. 8 9(2)(ba)(i)

Proposed Relief Measures

Return to Sea of Live Rock Lobster

10. Schedule 6 of the Fisheries Act 1996 (the Act) makes provision for stocks to be
returned to the sea in accordance with stated requirements. Within Schedule 6
there is a provision for rock lobsters which states:

A commercial fisher may return any rock lobster of legal size to the waters from
which it is taken if—

a) that rock lobster is likely to survive on return; and

b) the return takes place as soon as practicable after the rock lobster is taken.

11. The return of rock lobsters to the sea in accordance with Schedule 6 does not
carry requirements to balance these fish with ACE.

12. Provided the intent of this provision is able to be met, we consider this to be an
appropriate mechanism for the return to sea of rock lobsters in certain
circumstances. In doing so it will be important that the fisher can demonstrate
that Schedule 6 requirements for rock lobster are met, i.e. returned to the
waters from which it is taken, likely to survive on return, and the return takes
place as soon as practicable.

13. Another important consideration is biosecurity and disease risks associated with
returning rock lobsters that have been removed from the wild and held on land
(in fisher holding containers and LFR premises). In order to satisfy these
concerns it will be incumbent on the fisher or LFR to demonstrate:

e Records of the point of capture of each individual lobster;

e Segregation of catch based on point of capture;

e Independent water supply among catch;

e An acceptable health status of held catch (and the associated
management procedures); and

e Effective biosecurity measures in place to manage the potential transfer of
pests and disease.

Page 3 of 6
