In Confidence
Ministers with Powers to Act
From Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade 22/03/2020
COVID-19: Border Closure: Seeking Approval for Repatriation Transits through
Auckland for Third Country Nationals
Proposal
1. This paper seeks agreement of Ministers with Powers to Act to open a time-limited
window for transit from the Pacific through Auckland for the purpose of enabling the
repatriation of third country nationals to their home country.
Relation to Government Priorities
2. This proposal supports the Government's response to Covid-19.
Background
3. Following Cabinet Decision (CAB-20-Min-0122), effective 19 March 2020, all foreign
nationals who do not meet the travel exemptions and were not boarded before 2359 NZT will
not be allowed to enter New Zealand. All exempt travellers will still be required to self-isolate
for 14 days from the time of arrival in New Zealand. This effectively stopped ail transits of
passengers via New Zealand, other than to Australia for Australian citizens and permanent
residents.
Problem Definition and Proposal
Problem definition
4, Subsequent to this decision, the issue of third country nationals who were expected to
transit Auckland International Airport to depart to their home countries has become
increasingly complex and pressing. We have received numerous requests for the transit issue
to be revisited and from partner governments — including Pacific Island countries ~ and
airlines (especially Air NZ and LATAM). The matter was the subject of a demarche by
European diplomatic missions on 21 March. It is also of high interest to the Australian
government which is seeking to facilitate return home of third country nationals including
some via Auckland. All are requesting that consideration be given to allow airside transits via
Auckland.
5. New Zealand is asking a number of governments to carry a risk through allowing
transits of our nationals through their airports, but under current settings may be accused of
not offering similar facilities to their nationals seeking to repatriate.
RISK-62-1380

IN CONFIDENCE
