Page 3 of 7
11. This window set in 10(1) above matches that set by Australia. This change would allow
for airside transits only at Auckland International Airport to enable repatriation ~ i.e. not
allowing entry into New Zealand. MFAT is seeking similar support from a number of countries
for the movement of New Zealand citizens and residents to return home and based on
reciprocity we should attempt to be forward-leaning in terms of supporting these requests.
12. Allowing transits for repatriation purposes may have the added benefit of keeping open
fragile air-links (Los Angeles/Pacific Islands) for a few more days, allowing New Zealanders to
utilise commercial options to return home. It also is in New Zealand’s interests to keep open
air linkages to reduce number of foreign nationals remaining in New Zealand.
13. We would therefore propose that airside transits be permitted via Auckland airport to
facilitate repatriation for the periods specific in Paragraph 10. There would be no ability for
transit passengers to enter New Zealand and travel to another domestic airport for onward
travel.
Risks
14. To allow transits for repatriation purposes does carry risk. Paramount among these is
the risk that passengers on board are denied boarding once in Auckland to the next leg
(either way) and thus stranded here. Any transiting passengers subsequently stranded in
New Zealand would add to existing pressures on New Zealand’s systems to support self-
isolation. With closing air-links this may present a long-term risk. To further mitigate this risk
MFAT is seeking assurances from receiving governments that they will accept their nationals
and dependents for entry on arrival in home countries. Should this not be forthcoming then
transit will not be approved.
15. From a health perspective, the concern would be the potential spread of COVID-19 in
Auckland airport. This risk can be mitigated by applying requirements for transit prior to
boarding from the country of departure. The following requirements are from the Ministry of
Health for passengers wanting to transit any New Zealand international airport:
e no COVID-19 test result that is positive or for which the results have not been received
in the previous 14 days
e no close contact with a suspected or confirmed case in the previous 14 days
* no symptoms, especially no fever (temperature check undertaken) in the previous 14
days
e an assurance that airline will permit boarding for the full journey
® an assurance received via MFAT that the destination country will permit arrival
e an assurance that they can meet any entry requirements of destination country
{including measures required in transit, such as temperature checking)
e The airline does not allow unwell passengers on board.
Financial Implications
RISK-62-1380
