MINISTRY OF
et ewsl
Epidemiology in China and worldwide e.g. Sustained transmission is ongoing | The epidemiology of the outbreak has
containment or sustained transmission, direct travel | in mainland China. In other areas, | remained constant since the last review.
pathways to New Zealand and Australia from major | there is more limited transmission. There has been increasing reports of
travel hubs The Countries outside of China ° p
. . cases and deaths outside of China,
with the highest number of cases . . 7
. including cases with no clear
are the Republic of Korea (602 . . . .
i epidemiological link.
cases, with 256 new cases
reported in the past 24 hours), There has been a steady increase in the
Japan (132 cases), Singapore (89 number of deaths, but the number of
cases) and Italy (76 cases). laboratory confirmed cases has started
to slow down while the number of
There have now been 17 deaths .
. ~ - - recovered cases has increased.
outside of China, five each in
Republic of Korea and Iran, two China has revised their case definition,
Evolving each in Italy and on the Diamond removing the classification of clinically
epidemiology of the Princess and one each in the diagnosed and retaining only suspected
outbreak Philippines, France, and Japan and confirmed (requiring laboratory
confirmation).
Risk to NZ from geographical areas of. sustained Risk to New Zealand remains high Reviewing information from the cruise
transmission e.g. New Zealand's immediate despite introduction and hip in J: it is noteworthy that
ighbours and/or areas of high travel volume implementation of border Sup in Tapan this norewory Mare
neig ‘9 P proportion of people who tested
measures. positive had no symptoms at the time of
. . . . testing.
Risk assessment update The risk of importation and esting
transmission remains constant for
New Zealand.
Relevant modelling data Discussions about support from
New Zealand academic institutions
are underway with support from
Australian modelling experts
3
