IN CONFIDENCE
Essential household goods and services

22. As a result of restrictions on their movement, people in quarantine or managed isolation may
have limited access to essential items such as toiletries and medicines.

23. Cabinet’s previous agreement to amend the Guide to the National Civil Defence Emergency
Management Plan Order 2015 (‘the Guide’) has supported Local Authorities to recover certain
welfare costs they incur during the COVID-19 response. This includes the costs of essential
household goods and services provided to people in quarantine or managed self-isolation.

24. Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Groups are reaching out by phone to
undertake welfare checks on guests in hotels. These calls have been positively received.
Where appropriate, needs are also referred to CDEM Groups by health staff. Checking on the
needs of families with children is a priority.

25. In Auckland, the Auckland Emergency Coordination Centre and Isolation Coordination Cell are
working to deliver appropriate on-site welfare needs, such as food and other household goods.
In Auckland, a small number of personal items such as nappies and toiletries have been
provided on request. Some hotels also have arrangements for guests to order items and in
other cases a support person drops off supplies for an individual.

Psychosocial support

26. In addition to the range of wellbeing resources available on the MoH website, there are health
and other staff on site providing care and support to people in quarantine. In Auckland, the
local District Health Board is also providing psychosocial support. Their welfare/psychosocial
lead has been visiting the facilities and they have facilitated access to psychologists for
individual residents.

27. People in quarantine, like all New Zealanders, also have access to trained counsellors by
phone, 24 hours, 7 days a week.

28.The Psychosocial Response Team in the Ministry of Health is rapidly expanding and
developing a range of additional psychosocial support options to support the community. These
will also be available to people in quarantine. One of these is “Staying on Track”, a free online
course that introduces practical strategies to cope with worry and disruption of day-to-day life
as an impact of COVID-19. When up and running later this week it will be promoted to the
quarantine facilities through the information packs and onsite health coordinators.

Welfare support does not end with quarantine

29. Officials will undertake ongoing compliance checks with people who have left quarantine and
managed self-isolation. These checks will include ensuring people continue to have access to
the welfare support they may require.

Further work underway

30. Further work is now underway as part of the Quarantine Work stream to ensure full
consideration is being given to the wellbeing of vulnerable children. This includes officials from
Oranga Tamariki (OT):

a. establishing with MFAT that child travellers must have a designated responsible
guardian accompanying them;
Page 4 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
