IN CONFIDENCE

13. Passengers not displaying symptoms must explain their travel and accommodation plans for
self-isolation. If passengers do not have plans in place that meet MoH criteria, they are
transported to accommodation for a 14-day period of managed self- isolation.

14. Flights from Auckland to other New Zealand cities are also now available for safely relocating
travellers to points where they can travel home to go into self-isolation. This is a means of
ensuring those who can return to their homes are able to do so, thus reducing additional
distress and the likelihood of requiring welfare support.

People in quarantine and managed isolation face a range of
challenges

15. While most people returning to New Zealand are coping, in some cases returnees have
experienced initial confusion, for example about what is expected of them and what movement
restrictions they might face.

16. The smaller size of some hotels means that practising social distancing is practically difficult.
More significantly, health staff supporting hotel guests have advised there are a small number
of people presenting with more complex physical and mental health needs. These needs have
been exacerbated by the combination of the long journey home and the challenges of
quarantine. In more extreme cases, individuals in this group have been supported to travel
onward from Auckland so they can receive more comprehensive medical care.

17. More broadly, informal reporting indicates that for many travellers the main concern is less
focussed on quarantine itself, but rather the next steps following the 14-day quarantine period.
This anxiety has manifested in limited cases of aggression towards staff. Some people in
quarantine have also signalled anxiety related to uncertainty about job security back in New
Zealand.

These people also have access to welfare support

18. To help address the concerns above, and encourage compliance with the current alert level,
people placed into quarantine and managed self-isolation are being provided the following
welfare support:

Accommodation

19. Hotels across New Zealand have now been made available as facilities to support those in
managed isolation and quarantine. There are now eight hotels in Auckland (with one hotel, the
59(2)(@)), set aside for quarantine), two hotels in Christchurch and a further two in Wellington.
Auckland hotels are accommodating the largest number of people (nearly 1500 people across
eight hotels). Each hotel now has an appointed “site manager” to support the quarantine or
self-isolation operation.

20. People accommodated in quarantine facilities are provided with three meals per day. The
movement of a guest may be restricted, however, with those in quarantine unable to leave their
rooms.

21. Within 24 hours of an individual going into quarantine or managed self-isolation, people can
expect to be contacted, have the next steps explained to them, and be given an opportunity to
communicate any needs they may have.

Page 3 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
