IN CONFIDENCE
Purpose

4. This paper updates you on issues related to the welfare of people who are either in quarantine
(for those who arrive in the country with symptoms of COVID-19 illness), or “managed isolation”
(those without symptoms but who are compelled to self-isolate).

5. This paper does not cover support for the broader population who are now in “self-isolation”
as required by Alert Level 4 of the COVID-19 response.

Structures and processes established to support quarantine

6. Alarge number of those residing in New Zealand now require welfare support as a result of
COVID-19 Alert Level 4 restrictions. Agencies are working to ensure those at the highest risk
of severe illness from COVID-19 are being identified, and outreach continues to be undertaken
to check on and support their welfare.

7. The requirement for welfare support is also likely to increase as New Zealanders and
permanent residents continue to arrive home in the coming weeks. To manage this, officials
are working to ensure that domestic repatriation, planning for future international and
repatriation flights, and management of quarantine and isolation facilities (including welfare
support) is well coordinated.

8. Work is also focussed on enabling the return of New Zealanders and permanent residents,
where possible, to their home locations to complete self-isolation, while maintaining public
health interventions at the border including the provision of quarantine facilities where
necessary.

9. The National Crisis Management Centre has therefore directed Auckland Emergency
Management to establish the Quarantine Isolation and Planning Cell, a repatriation cell in
Auckland, and an Auckland Emergency Management Quarantine/Isolation Coordination Cell.
Welfare considerations are an important part of this work.

10. The Ministry of Health (MoH) currently manages multiple quarantine and managed isolation
facilities in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. The Ministry of Health will be transferring
the management of these facilities to the mew Auckland Emergency Management
Quarantine/Isolation Coordination Team. The Ministry of Health, however, will retain
governance and policy oversight of the facilities. It is expected that the new Auckland structure
will be replicated across the regions.

Travellers assessed on arrival in New Zealand

11. All returning travellers are provided with a factsheet outlining the various government welfare
support services available, including psychosocial support, temporary accommodation
services, financial assistance and provision of essential goods and services. They are also
provided information on self-isolation.

12. Upon arrival in New Zealand travellers are screened by health officials. People who are
symptomatic and showing signs of illness are tested, treated as necessary, and placed in
quarantine for 14 days. People in quarantine are restricted from leaving their accommodation.

Page 2 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
