Epidemiology in China | Sustained transmission is The increasing cases of community
and worldwide e.g. ongoing in mainland China. _| transmission in South Korea, Italy and
containment or In other areas, there is more | Iran are significant changes to the
sustained limited transmission. The epidemiology.
transmission, direct countries outside of China ws P
° There have been increasing reports of
travel pathways to with the highest number of 4 :
cases and deaths outside of China,
New Zealand and cases are South Korea 5 H
nimapaminae: || (ieraasumnsosmen | Meudinyeseswnthinglear
. epidemiological link to Hubei.
travel hubs cases reported in the past
24 hours), Italy (400 cases, | There has been a steady increase in
with 78 new cases reported | the number of deaths, but the number
in the past 24 hours, Japan _| of laboratory confirmed cases has
(186 cases), Iran (141 cases | started to slow down while the
with 46 new cases reported | number of recovered cases has
in the past 24 hours) and increased.
binkanuce’ (33 :cases. Reviewing information from the cruise
There have now been 57 ship in Japan, it is noteworthy that
deaths outside of China (13. | around half of the people who tested
new deaths), 22 in Iran, 13in | positive had no symptoms at the time
Evolving epidemiology South Korea, 12 in Italy, four | of testing.
of the outbreak on the Diamond Princess,
three in Japan, two in
France and one in the
Philippines.
Risk to NZ from Risk to New Zealand
geographical areas of | remains high despite
sustained transmission | introduction and
e.g. New Zealand’s implementation of border
immediate neighbours | measures.
and/or areas of high
travel volume
Risk assessment The risk of importation and
update transmission remains
constant for New Zealand.
Relevant modelling Discussions about support
data from New Zealand academic
institutions are underway
with support from
Australian modelling experts
Basic reproduction Early studies indicate There is still uncertainty about the
number (RO)* reproductive rate of transmissibility of COVID-19. As more
between 2 and 3.1 case data is being released from
{increased from 1.4) mainland China and other countries,
Infectiousness Virus is spread through ane ee Lily willow the
- - contact with respiratory transmissibility will be made.
Emerging evidence : ‘
sane. droplets in the air and on
about transmissibility es s
inanimate objects (surfaces)
Incubation period Estimates of the median
incubation period are 5-6
days (range 0-14 days) and
estimates of serial interval
range from 4.4-7.5 days.
a7
8t605jj9dp 2020-04-20 12:27:20
