Case fatality risk The fatality rate within The emerging evidence about the
China is currently 2.3 severity of the illness has remained
percent and is lower outside | constant since the first case details
of China. were released from mainland China.
Emerging evidence - - = There is inadequate severe case data
about severity of Severe disease risk or | There isn’t enough data quailalilel fercthie’g lobia Latuction
illness hospitalisation rate about the number of severe b - bi II
cases apart from the ecause the numbers are sma
Sunstioninmaniandichie | Cmpstedsnttthentmbersin
. . mainland China.
which has remained steady
at ~14 percent.
Travel restrictions WHO still advises travel WHO advice has remained the same.
advice restrictions are not ” 3
appropriates Australia has recently announced it
will lift travel restrictions for a small
i Other advice The overall advice and risk number of school children from China.
WHO advice
assessment from WHO has i 2
inedctatesince'the Other countries such as Bahrain,
Tee Kiribati and Samoa have added
lostreviews additional travel restrictions for
individual countries.
Disease control The disease control There have been noteworthy changes
measures in other measures have remained in the public health measures in other
countries/territories the same. countries.
Exit screening The measures have The US CDC has in place the following
measures at source remained the same. travel alerts:
counines/temmores Ginaard Southersa lavas, avoid
Measures to prevent | The measures have nonessential Travel,
or delay virus entering | remained the same. Japan, Italy and Iran: level 2, Practice
Public health Pacific Island enhanced precautions,
measures in other countries/territories Hong Kong: Level 1, practice usual
countries precautions.
CDC also considers there to be
community spread in Singapore,
Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, but
that the extent of spread is not yet
sustained or widespread enough to
meet the criteria for a travel notice.
Advice for returning travellers has
been updated in the UK.
Effectiveness of The effectiveness of current | The current measures have been
current measures measures has stayed the effective in the current phase of the
same as there are still no NZIPAP. “i.e keep it out.”
confirmed cases in NZ.
7 Feasibility of More stringent border
implementing other control and public health
control measures measures can be considered
if needed.
Cost-benefit No change in the cost-
assessment benefit assessment.
* The RO is the average number of other people that one infected person will infect, in a completely non-immune
population
18
8t605jj9dp 2020-04-20 12:27:20
