DRAFT IN CONFIDENCE — NOT GOVERNMENT POLICY
Annex 1 Programme Map — Covid response activities to facilitate Distance Learning Phase 2 - support for schools opening 15 April and immediate aftermath
End of week 30 march Week beginning 6 April Week beginning 13 April Week beginning 20 April
Survey Survey to all schools and kura to better understand Survey/data collection form to identify learners who
current capability and capacity to provide would require a device, or hard pack to be delivered on
online/distance learning. 16 April.
Broadcast English medium Television English medium Television All All
Stand up of Broadcast * Scope and approval to launch Home school TV. © Contract signed with TVNZ e Go Live — 15 April * Continued development and production of
hi | id i .
Gevelopheent and daRvery of * Communication to launch * Continued development and production of new be Broadcast Soere
daily content © Content plans finalised to deliver 6.5 hrs of BinantaSticontent
Aligned to the National education content to learners relevant to age groups
Curriculum and the needs of (e.g. EL ‘play’ sessions) — staggered approach
all English Medium, reo Maori ¢ Content production/filming starts.
learners and Maori medium
Maori Television Maori Television
* Scope of content development in progress. Note: | Contract signed with Maori TV
One hour of Maori language content is being 7 i
made available for language learners. * Communication to launch finalised
© Content development begins
Agreements in place with key whanau to record specific
content.
Online Learning Support Learningfromhome.govt.nz Learningfromhome.govt.nz Learningfromhome.govt.nz All sites
Development, collation, and e Launch website: learningfromhome.govt.nz — with | ¢ Load of priority learning resources from Te Kura, e — Identify, collate and final load of content. Continued collation of materials,
upload of website resources load for priority content and advice. leaders and teacher development and upload to websites.
for Early learning to senior .
secondary learners, teachers «Identify, collate and final load of content.
and parents
e — learningfromhome.govt.nz
Collation and launch of Ki te Ki te Ao Marama Ki te Ao Marama Ki te Ao Marama
poMarana a Kaunynata RES « Launch and load for priority content and advice. e Additional content is being developed and quality « Additional content is being developed and
to support whanau, akonga - 3 2
and kaiako te progress assured for load to the site. quality assured for load to the site.
learning at home SOUS aa aTTIL ORT S OE Best mrectiGe! Publish exemplars of ‘best practice’ for distance
© kauwhatareo.govt.nz P pI learning in early learning services on Learningfromhome
~~ ¢ For distance learning in early learning services for | and Ki te Ao Marama.
publication on Learningfromhome and Ki te Ao
Marama.
Student support Studylt forums
* to be reopened by 15 April and updates
prioritised to provide students with online
NCEA tutoring.
8
