Appendix Two: Risk mitigating isolation measures that are advised in scenarios with differing levels of risk
New Zealand f 5
i ji Beck Guidance/Procedures | Health resources required /
Isolation Risk of exposure a eae OE esa provided Legal framework
vat , MoH guidance on how
Measure | such as where people have been Chern ee secommonaton ‘0 folate jin each Support provided through Health _| Public Health Act 1956
isolate —
Self- Low - People that have been in Individuals Low - The risk of Guidance for self- Healthline resource for Health sector providing
Isolation places of concern in the past 14 staying in private | transmission in settings isolation’ registration and phone advice support through standard
days have a low risk of residences or where people have Register with models of care.
contracting the virus similar (such as access to private Healthline for follow up
private homes, residences with
flats or established networks of
homesta: support is low.
Supported | Low - People that have been in Individuals are Medium -The risk of Guidance for self- Healthline resource for Health sector providing
Self- places of concern in the past 14 supported transmission is considered | isolation. registration and phone advice. support through standard
Isolation days have a low risk of through shared medium in Supplementary In some circumstances may models of care.
contracting the virus accommodation | accommodation settings guidance for self- require assurance from facility
facility settings where people are in close | isolation in shared management that the guidance
(such as student | proximity or a shared accommodation can be met effectively. If the
hostels/halls or accommodation facility. facilities. guidance cannot be met,
hotels). additional support through Health
resources may be required.
Where individuals have no
accommodation, additional
resources may be required
(including cross-government).
Monitored | High - Individuals who are Can vary from Low / medium — As Monitoring and support | This group will be a priority for Health sector providing
Self- identified as a close contact with | private above, this will depend on | managed as per Health resourcing and will require | support through standard
Isolation a confirmed COVID-19 case that | residences to accommodation settings standard guidance for | individual follow up and models of care.
have a high risk of developing shared (private or shared close contact management through the Health Health legislation can be used
COVID-19 disease accommodation | accommodation facilities). | management. system. for this group and this moves
facilities. into enforced isolation (below)
Enforced | High - Individuals at high risk of Can vary from Low - Enforced isolation Managed as per Intensive Health resourcing A Medical Officer of Health
Isolation developing COVID-19 disease private procedures follow very operating procedures required including accommodation | can require isolation or
(e.g. have been in a place of residences to strict requirements for enforced isolation facilities, laundry, cleaning, food, quarantine for the ‘purpose of
identified outbreak such as shared regarding proximity and (e.g. Whangaparaoa) and other services. preventing the outbreak or
‘Wuhan and/or have had close accommodation | shared accommodation spread of any infectious
contact with a confirmed COVID- | facilities. facilities. disease’?
19 case).
+ www.health.govt.nz/our-work/diseases-and-conditions/novel-coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-self-isolation
? Health Act 1956 Section 70 ‘Special powers of medical officer of health’
16
Ayn8val00k 2020-04-22 17:57:52
