Relevant modelling data_| Discussions about support
from New Zealand academic
institutions are underway
with support from Australian
modelling experts.
Basic reproduction Early studies indicate a As more case data is released from
number (RO)* reproduction number of 2.2 mainland China, more accurate
(increased from 1.4) assessments on the transmissibility
Infectiousness Virus is spread through aa SeInane.
m o contact with respiratory
Emerging evidence ‘ :
ice droplets in the air and on
SRARE re STAY inanimate objects (surfaces)
Incubation period WHO estimates incubation
period of 1 - 12.5 days,
median estimate of 5-6
days
Case fatality risk The fatality rate has The emerging evidence about the
remained ~3 percent and the | severity of the illness has remained
majority are contained within | constant since the first case details
. . the Hubei province. were released from mainland China.
Emerging evidence - - — There isn't sufficient severe case
about severity of Severe disease risk or There isn’t enough data data available for the global
illness hospitalisation rate about the number of severe | cituation because the numbers are
reseeepatcomaS small compared with the numbers in
situation in mainland China mainland China.
which has remained steady “
at ~14 percent.
Travel restrictions WHO still advises travel WHO advice has remained the
advice restrictions are not same.
appropriate.
WHO advice Other advice The overall advice and risk
assessment from WHO has
remained static since the last
review.
Disease control The disease control There have been no noteworthy
measures in other measures have remained the | changes in the public health
countries/territories same. measures in place in other
A = countries.
Public health Exit screening measures | The measures have
inoeaures kcoter at source remained the same.
comitries countries/territories
Measures to preventor | The measures have
delay virus entering remained the same.
Pacific Island
countries/territories
Effectiveness of current | The effectiveness of current | The current measures have been
measures measures has stayed the effective in the current phase of the
same as there are still no NZIPAP i.e. ‘Keep It Out’.
confirmed cases in NZ.
x Feasibility of More stringent border control
implementing other and public health measures
control measures can be considered if needed
Cost-benefit assessment | No change in the cost-
benefit assessment.
* The RO is the average number of other people that one infected person will infect, in a completely non-immune population
18
Ayn8val00k 2020-04-22 17:57:52
