Appendix Four: International responses — border measures
Source: International SOS, International Air Transport Association (IATA) - updated 18 February 2020
A total of 72 countries have temporary border measures, such as:
e  self-quarantining on arrival, usually for 14 days
e screening on arrival and subsequent quarantining if needed
e mandatory quarantining on arrival for travellers from Hubei or all of Mainland China
e presenting a medical certificate on arrival
e cancelling visa-on-arrival services
e restricting travellers from Hubei province (except nationals)
e restricting travellers from Mainland China (except nationals)
e restricting travellers from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan (except nationals)
e restricting travellers from any location with a case of COVID-19 (except nationals)
e closing of land borders to Chinese nationals or travellers from China.
Since 11 February 2020 the following countries and territories have retained temporary border measures
broadly equivalent to New Zealand:
American Samoa (US), Antigua and Barbadu, Australia, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belize, Cook Islands, El
Salvador, Fiji, Gabon, Grenada, Guatemala, Hong Kong (China), India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kiribati, Kosovo, Kuwait, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia,
Mongolia, Myanmar, Niue, North Korea, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Samoa,
Seychelles, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Taiwan (China), Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, the United
States of America, Vanuatu, Vietnam.
Since 11 February 2020 the following countries and territories have put in place temporary border
measures broadly equivalent to New Zealand:
Bahrain, Madagascar, Northern Mariana Islands, Saudi Arabia
The table below shows border measures in place for key reference countries, as at 18 February 2020.
There has been no change since 11 February 2020.
Australia Border and transit closed to passengers who have transited through or have
been in China on or after 1 February 2020.
Exceptions: Does not apply to airline crew. Does not apply to
nationals/residents of Australia. They will be required to self-isolate for a
period of 14 days from their arrival.
United States of America Border closed to passengers who have been in China in the past 14 days.
Exceptions: Does not apply to nationals/residents of the USA. Passengers
who have been in China in the past 14 days must arrive at one of ten
designated airports. They will be required to self-isolate for 14 days from
arrival.
19
tyn8val00k 2020-04-22 17:57:52
