Appendix Three: Factors for consideration for border measures review, as at 20 February
2020
High-level Factors for Indicate if there has been a | Overall comment
considerations consideration change in this factor since
INES Theo eciors have the last assessment
not been weighted or
prioritised
Appropriate guidance There is guidance available The overall status of readiness of
documents and on the Ministry of Health New Zealand's health system to
management processes | website for the health sector | respond is good. There are
available for the health and the general public. response plans in place from the
system Regular border advisories DHBs to the Ministry.
are being issued and
protocols for the
management of the first case | The Ministry’s Chief Medical Officer
in New Zealand have been has engaged widely with clinical
developed. colleagues in the sector to identify
Scenario planning for No, there has been no pees
a potential impact on New | change. Management of the supply chain for
Readiness of New Zealand's health system PPE supplies for the wider sector Is
Zealand’s health being established
system to respond to | Current response aims No Indicative health sector .
cases and/or outbreak | (e.g. stage of New alert code has been issued.
Zealand Influenza
Pandemic Action Plan)
Acceptability and There has been increased
feasibility of current concern regarding
measures for key international students and
stakeholders whether an exemption
should be considered.
Workforce sustainability | There have been isolated
of current and/or instances of workforce
proposed measures issues regarding self-
isolation.
Epidemiology in China Sustained transmission is The epidemiology of the outbreak
and worldwide e.g. ongoing in mainland China. has remained constant since the
containment or sustained | In other areas, there is more | last review. There has been a
transmission limited transmission. The steady increase in the number of
number of new cases, deaths, but the daily number of
deaths and recoveries laboratory confirmed cases has
continue to increase. There ‘started to slow down while the
have now been three deaths | number of recovered cases has
outside of China, one each in | increased.
Evolving a France and | china has now ceased routine
epidemiology of the testing of milder cases and is
outbreak Risk to NZ from Risk to New Zealand applying a presumptive clinical
geographical areas of remains high despite diagnosis
sustained transmission introduction and
e.g. New Zealand's implementation of border
immediate neighbours measures The rapid spread of cases on the
and/or areas of high cruise ship in Japan is of concern as
travel volume a significant proportion who tested
Risk assessment update | The risk of importation and posiinne hesdinctsymiptorne?
transmission remains
unchanged for New Zealand.
17
Ayn8val00k 2020-04-22 17:57:52
