IN CONFIDENCE
Page 6 of 9

COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders

New Zealanders on cruise ships

8. We are compiling data about New Zealanders currently on cruise ships from
consular calls and in some cases, from cruise companies directly. As at
Wednesday 18 March we were aware of 303 New Zealanders on cruise ships
(although we expect there are more).

9. Circumstances vary from ship to ship. Some ships have not yet been able to
make arrangements to dock as a result of bans on cruise ships. Some
passengers will be required to complete 14 days of isolation on the cruise ship or
at their port of disembarkation before they are able to get a flight back to
New Zealand. It will become increasingly difficult for passengers to return to New
Zealand on commercial flights.

10. Some cruise ships are making arrangements at their own expense for flights to
hubs for passengers.

11. Where there are New Zealanders on board cruise ships being prevented from
docking we will work with local authorities and 5 Nations partners to find
solutions.

What we are currently doing

12.The submission led by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment

(MBIE) of 16 March 2020 outlined the wide range of activities MFAT is already
doing to assist and support New Zealanders offshore.

13.The MFAT assisted departure flights for New Zealanders in Wuhan, China and

passengers of the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan reflected exceptional
circumstances. These New Zealanders faced a high degree of risk as a result of
the Diamond Princess being COVID-19 epicentres, limited or no commercial
options for returning home, and at that time a pandemic had not been declared by
the World Health Organisation (WHO).

Options for assistance

14.MFAT’s consular policy as set out on SafeTravel is based on the principle, that

individual travellers take responsibility for their own risk management and have a
contingency plan in the event of a disruption to their travel plans (e.g. insurance
cover and sufficient back-up funds). Our consular services are focused on
supporting and assisting New Zealanders in difficult situations but we do not, for
example, make bookings or provide funds — apart from in extremis in the form of a
