Page 9 of 9
COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders
s9(2)(b) (ii), $9(2)G), $9(2)(g)()were funded out of MFAT’s budget (with a $500 contribution from
passengers). These marked a departure from previous practice whereby we have
not put on our own assisted departure flights, making use of partner country flights
where necessary.

28.Given the range of locations now affected by Covid-19, MFAT’s strong preference
is to maintain the position that the Wuhan and Diamond Princess assisted
departure flights were exceptional. Any additional assisted departure flights would
likely set a precedent, raise equity issues, and come at significant cost to the
Government at a time of economic difficulty.

29.Flights using New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) aircraft are a challenging
proposition beyond Australia and the Pacific Islands region.

30. There may, however, be a stronger case for assisted departure where individuals
considered to be high risk are involved, and/or where medical facilities in the
country are very limited. In most cases assisted departure would only be viable in
conjunction with one or more 5 Nations partners. We suggest the following set of
criteria upon which we would base advice on a case-by-case basis (with no
particular weighting):

e Assisted departure is for individuals who are fit for travel according to advice
form health authorities.

e Nocommercial flight options to New Zealand are available.

e tis unsafe to shelter in place.

e 5 Nations partners are evacuating their citizens.

e The New Zealand health system is not overwhelmed.

31.Any assisted departure from the Pacific would enable New Zealand to assist third-
country nationals. Given the high financial and opportunity cost of assisted
departure flights, any missions beyond the Pacific Islands, and are unlikely to be
logistically viable beyond the Asia-Pacific rim.

32.In considering either the charter option at commercial rates or a government-
funded assisted departure, we would work closely with our 5 Nations partners
(Australia, UK, US, Canada) to request seats on their evacuation flights from
difficult locations for New Zealand citizens as we did with the Diamond Princess.
Evacuees would still require flights to New Zealand and the New Zealand
Government may be expected to make these arrangements. All our 5 Nations
partners note on their websites that citizens should not rely on assisted departure
flights to get home.
