Page 3 of 9
COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders

e Where there are New Zealanders on board cruise ships being prevented from
docking we will work with the cruise ship companies, local authorities and 5
Nations partners to find solutions.

Commercial airlines

S9(2)(b)(ii), $9(2)(ba)

Assisted departures

e Given the number and wide geographical spread of locations affected by
COVID-19, MFAT’s strong preference is to maintain the position that the Wuhan
and Diamond Princess assisted departure flights were exceptional.

°

We remain in close contact with our 5 Nations partners on this issue.

e There may be a stronger case for assisted departure where individuals are
considered to be at high risk, and/or where medical facilities in the country are
very limited. In most cases assisted departure would only be viable in
conjunction with one or more 5 Nations partners. We have suggested a set of
criteria upon which we would base advice on a case-by-case basis. The cost
and logistical difficulties should not be underestimated.

e In all cases, we would request seats on any evacuation flights by our 5 Nations
partners from difficult locations as we did with the Diamond Princess.
Evacuees would still require onward flights to New Zealand and the New
Zealand Government would be expected to make these arrangements.

e Even with assisted departure flights it will not be feasible to bring all New
Zealanders who want to return home as some will be unwell, in quarantine, or
unable to get to departure points.

e Flights using New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) aircraft are a challenging
proposition beyond Australia and the Pacific Islands region.

e Any assisted departure from the Pacific would enable New Zealand to assist
third-country nationals.

e There are public health risks associated with encouraging New Zealanders to
return from parts of the world where COVID-19 is already well-established. To
date, all of New Zealand’s confirmed COVID-19 cases are traceable to
overseas travellers. We can expect that some New Zealanders returning will be
infected, even if they are asymptomatic.

Deborah Geels
for Secretary of Foreign Affairs and Trade
