Page 5 of 9

COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders

Report

1. New Zealand overseas missions and MFAT’s Consular Division are receiving an
increasing number of calls from New Zealanders as countries’ border measures
become stricter in response to Covid-19.

2. MFAT currently provides consular support to New Zealanders overseas in the form
of an established 24/7 call centre/consular duty phone in Wellington and through
our posts overseas. Our official travel advice for the whole world is now “avoid
non-essential travel” and to urge New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to
consider returning home while commercial options remain available. We recognise,
however that as options for New Zealanders to fly home narrow, more New
Zealanders will need to “shelter in place” and more innovative measures to assist
them may be required.

3. The Ministry is monitoring the availability of commercial flight options and transit
rules for key airport hubs. It will be critical for us that key hubs such as Singapore,
Hong Kong, Dubai, Doha and Los Angeles (where reduced air services seem likely
to continue) allow passengers to transit without applying border restrictions.

4. Covid-19 is now a declared global pandemic affecting almost all countries. While
many countries including New Zealand have advised their nationals travelling
overseas to return home while commercial options remain available, the large
number of New Zealanders resident overseas in developed countries with
advanced health systems are likely to choose to “shelter in place’.

What we know about New Zealanders currently overseas

5. We do not have comprehensive data about the number of New Zealanders
overseas at any one time. Our standard estimate is that there are approximately 1
million New Zealanders overseas at any time (including approximately 80,000 on
short-term travel). The number of short-term travellers will now be significantly
lower as New Zealanders follow advice to avoid non-essential travel.

6. As at the time of writing there are 19,665 registrants on SafeTravel, of which
11,350 are registered as residing offshore. The number of registrants is surging,
and the message to register is continuing to be emphasised. The Safetravel data
is indicative of New Zealanders being concentrated in some countries (2,832
registrants in Australia, 2,752 in UK, 1,769 in US) but spread throughout the world
(5,842 in Asia, 2,363 in Europe, 1,000 in Pacific, 661 in Africa, 682 in South
America, 55 in the Caribbean).

7. We are now receiving more than 100 calls per day in Wellington, and significant
numbers at our overseas posts. A week ago the majority were seeking travel
advice; now, most are asking for government assistance with repatriation. While we
are receiving calls from New Zealanders all over the world, current “hotspots” are
Morocco, South America (Peru, Chile) and Europe.
