Page 7 of 9

COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders
cash advance with an undertaking to repay. This is made clear on SafeTravel and
is important as it maintains realistic expectations of what MFAT will do in the case
of an emergency, thereby avoiding s9(2)(g)(i) setting precedents that we
are unable to sustain.

15.These are extreme circumstances however, and we are actively exploring
additional options for assisting New Zealanders who may become stranded
overseas. These are presented in the annexed table, and below we outline those
proposals we think warrant the greatest consideration. The options requiring
greater government intervention also represent higher per capita cost, opportunity
cost at a time when resources are under pressure, set precedents |s9(2)(g)(i)

and raise issues of equity (including amongst travellers, and with

respect to New Zealanders at home). We also need to keep in mind the capacity of
the Ministry to pursue multiple options simultaneously.

Changes to travel advisories

16.Where New Zealanders are resident overseas we propose to encourage them to
take into account the circumstances (eg ability to access quality health care) in
their country of residence in reaching a decision to remain or return to New
Zealand.

47 s6(a), s9(2)(g)(i)

18. It will be important to continue to be transparent about actions the Ministry is taking
with respect to New Zealand government staff off-shore and their dependents.

Making funds available for unanticipated expenses

19.Currently MFAT maintains a small fund of money that can be loaned (interest free)
to New Zealand citizens when all other options have been exhausted.
$9(2)(g)(i), 9(2) (Ff) (iv)

20.We could explore options for expanding access to these funds including publicity,
widening the criteria, relaxing the requirement that individuals first explore other
funding avenues eg family, or streamlining approval processes. We understand
that a majority of travel insurance policies exclude coverage of Covid-19 related
costs, claiming force majeure.

21.0n 17 March Canada announced an emergency fund for its citizens stranded
abroad. s6(b)|
