Page 2 of 9
COVID-19: Assistance for Stranded New Zealanders
Key points
e New Zealand overseas missions and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s
(MFAT) Consular Division are receiving an increasing number of calls from New
Zealanders as countries’ border measures become stricter in response to
Covid-19.
e |t will not be possible for every New Zealander who would like to return home to
do so. Some will need to “shelter in place’.
Our Consular Policy
e MFAT’s consular policy as set out on the SafeTravel website is based on the
principle that individual travellers take responsibility for their own risk
management and have a contingency plan in the event of a disruption to their
travel plans. These are extreme circumstances however, so we are exploring
additional options for assisting New Zealanders who may become stranded
overseas.
e The options requiring greater government intervention also represent higher per
capita and opportunity costs, set precedents and raise issues of equity.
Official travel advice
e We propose to encourage New Zealanders resident overseas to weigh up their
local circumstances in reaching a decision to remain or return to New Zealand,
and to clearly link our Safetravel advice to in-depth country specific Covid-19
advice provided by our 5 Nations partners focusing ourselves on the Pacific.
Options for providing financial assistance
e We propose developing options to provide emergency and other financial
assistance to New Zealanders needing to change travel arrangements or who
need to remain in place and who are in financial difficulty and have exhausted
other options. Options include: increasing the size of the Ministry’s fund for
financial advances and expanding access to these funds through increased
publicity and relaxing criteria; officials approaching commercial banks to explore
options to increase credit card limits or put in place other measures to provide
access to funding; and exploring options with the Ministry of Social
Development to increase access to financial support, including for pensioners,
where applicable.
e New Zealanders in Australia are starting to request intervention from the
New Zealand government to access Australian support due to job losses from
Covid-19.
New Zealanders on cruise ships
e Weare aware of 303 New Zealanders on cruise ships (although we expect
there are more). Some ships have not been able to make arrangements to
dock. It will become increasingly difficult for passengers to return to New
Zealand on commercial flights.
