IN CONFIDENCE
. .
Decision paper:
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From Cheryl Barnes, NCMC Date 24/03/2020
Purpose
1. This note sets out an approach to ensuring the availability of childcare for the children of
essential workers during the 4-week lock-down period from midnight Wednesday 25 March
2020. It seeks Ministerial decisions to enable the approach:
a. Classifying some individual and government-subsidised early learning and out of school
care providers as essential workers; and
b. Government providing direct funding to subsidised providers.

Comment

2. The Government has decided that from midnight, Wednesday 25 March, all schools and
childcare providers will be closed.

3. Essential workers are required to work during this period, to ensure that services (including
health services) continue to be provided.

4. This creates a risk to the delivery of essential services, if these workers who are parents are
not able to work.

5. The scale of the issue is unknown. We will have information shortly about the number of
children who presented at school and early learning services today — when only the children
of essential workers are permitted to attend. It is likely that this is the outer bound of the
number, given that many will work out an arrangement from Thursday. Some parents who are
not essential workers may also have sent children to school/services while they put other
arrangements in place, or start working from home themselves.

6. This note proposes an approach for managing this issue, and in particular, providing for those
who are unable to find a solution themselves. It requires Ministerial decisions to enable it.

Proposal

7. The proposal below takes into account public health guidance — in particular, advice to limit
all means of transmission of infection. It does this in balance with a need to accept some level
of risk in the interests of ensuring that essential services can continue to operate.

8. It is proposed that:

Page 1 of 4
IN CONFIDENCE
