SENSITIVE
Annex Two: Compliance and enforcement operating model approach
Covid-19: legitimacy, compliance, and enforcement as we step down to levels 3 and 2
As we step down to levels 3 and 2, the economic and regulatory environment — + _ We can manage this by consciously designing for legitimacy in our regulatory,
il lance and enforcement strategies, and in their implementation.
will become more complex somes
becomemore comple + Central to this is that there should a consistent, joined-up all-of-Government
Fatigue rises Fatigue with restrictions, the need to “stretch our legs” means people will ikely A compliance and enforcement spectrum
push boundaries around geographical and regulatory limits. Likely to worsen the
longer restrictions are in place, or if differential restrictions or a step up are needed. =|
Complacency sets | People will associate a step down with a lower level of risk and may relax their —
in personal precautions. A step up is likely to jolt complacency, but it may also see a
loss of confidence in government. ue Ieee
conginace | "Somatance neice
Incentives for {As restrictions are relaxed, people will | Further relaxation of restrictions will =] a
non-compliance | be incentivised to breach restrictions | weaken some incentives (e.g. ECE centres my ——— 7 (ied
‘grow (eg, by re-opening work premises ‘open) and strengthen others (e.g. shared a
despite not meeting health parenting across different areas if A
ie el Bia areifcacior ee vtec
$9(2)(c)
Bete he) Os thespactrarnpeantann arctan NZ's constitutional settings and culture
| choice and mix cf approach, prefer an enforcement model that
Crisis points are | Financial pressures on business and | Pressures will continue to be felt as the but efforts are made to move ‘emphasises co-operative enforcement (e.g
reached workers as economy comes out of ‘economy moves into a new “normal” for most people towards voluntary Police engagement with communities)
lockdown stasis and subsidies end. an unknown period of time. compliance, rather than being enforcement-led.
Designing a legitimacy-maximising compliance strategy that guides all-of-Government enforcement
The starting point is social legitimacy. People will be more accepting of a proportionate and fait preparing to step between levels needs:
approach consistent with constitutional norms and values. They expect decentralised and co- ° “ee "
‘operative approaches applied with sufficient flexibility that the rules make sense in different Concise, consistent information well ahead of any transition to encourage everyone to be prepared
contexts (our old normal), for the new requirements.
Transparent decision-making criteria ensure everyone understands the rules of the game. Enhance
= decision-makers’ accountability and promote public understanding of why decisions are being
The triangle of trust Transparent decision, made in a particular way.
‘making coe
— . Seren ene Creating buy-in by glving the public some skin in the game. When people can choose whether or
ssc co oy 4 ‘ Hectic ot they want to adopt a contact tracing app in return for greater freedom of movement, they are
Ceci 5S * se more likely to accept the consequences of their choices (e.g. greater freedom of movement versus
el if lo more time at level 3).
ra "a, Sonate iat rin Identifying the right resources and leaders — initiatives won't just come from the public sector.
# & / sroudwedone \% | UE People, communities, iwi, regulated parties, and regulators all have a role to play. Drive and
of Can we do it? oe innovation in communities and iwi should be leveraged and amplified where possible.
How must we do ; ‘
J / it? Feasible enforcement strategies — no single agency can or should be responsible for enforcing
- chationinrlecetngandenoiee | TestFictions. Every regulator will have a role, whether enforcing new restrictions, or adapting BAU
‘Accountability ut providinginformation where regulations to meet changing circumstances.
mechanisms’ “em Incentvices compliance with mmm sebo¥ Providing infrmation wher ss sis
en ERS — Allowing space for innovation - The economy is already innovating to cope with restrictions. We
‘The three levers on the points of the triangle tend to drive decision-makers towards want to give the economy space to keep innovating. That means not being prescriptive when we
compliance with the norms at the centre don’t need to be, and being open to new solutions that meet our objectives.
SENSITIVE
