SENSITIVE
ROTeaor Reo Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 (current)
‘© Foreign nationals leaving New Zealand (except Cook Strait ferries),
© New Zealanders resident in the Realm retuming home, and
© People arriving in New Zealand from overseas and returning home after 14 days’ isolation/quarantine at port of
arrival (except air and marine crew).
All other travel is not allowed.
No restrictions. Gatherings only allowed for up to 100 people | Gatherings of up to 10 people at a time for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga, All gatherings cancelled.
indoors, and up to 500 outdoors. These are
total permitted numbers. Wedding receptions or other celebrations are not allowed. Consumption of food/drink not permitted.
Te ree Siena Workplaces, education facilities, public transport and supermarkets are not considered gatherings.
Additional conditions on gatherings: Additional conditions on gatherings:
© Physical distancing and infection prevention | ® Physical distancing and infection prevention and control requirements must be met,
and control requirements must be met. © All gatherings must record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be conducted if necessary.
© Allgatherings must record attendees to ensure | * No participants allowed who have COVID-19 symptoms or who need to be in isolation/quarantine for any reason
contact tracing may be conducted if
necessary.
© No participants allowed who have COVID-19
symptoms or who need to be in
isolation/quarantine for any reason
No restrictions. Public venues are open, but must comply with | All public venues closed (eg |braries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, amusement parks, ‘All public venues closed (eg libraries, museums, cinemas, food cours, gyms,
conditions on gatherings. playgrounds, farmers’ markets). pools, amusement parks, playgrounds, farmers’ markets).
Public open spaces (eg parks) may be used, but people need to maintain physical distancing outside their Public open spaces (eg parks) may be used, but people need to maintain physical
extended bubbles. distancing outside their bubbles.
Rican and —_| No restrictions. © Health and disability care services operate © Hospitals operate in line with the National Hospital Response Framework. © Hospitals operate in line with the National Hospital Response Framework.
eee normally as far as possible. © Primary care services are open (including dental and allied health) and use virtual, non-contact consultations © Primary care services (including dental and allied health) to use virtual, non-
© Hospitals will operate in line with the National where possible. contact consultations where poss ble.
Hospital Response Framework. ‘© Residential facilities remain open with strict visitor policies. In home visiting required for priority populations. © Only urgent acute care conducted in person, maintaining public health
© Physical distance and infection control is) BhanimaciesTenaa open guidelines. Routine care postponed
guidelines followed. © Residential facilities remain open with strict visitor policies. In home visiting
Remote consultations used wherever possible. required for priority populations.
Pharmacies remain open.
Workplaces | Businesses must operate safely. This | Businesses must operate safely. This means: People required to work from home unless that is not poss ble. People required to work from home unless that is not possible.
means: © Complying with Alert Level 2 settings in this | Workplaces can only open if: Workpt ! it
© Complying with Alert Level 1 table, and © Workers cannot work from home, and . igen can ah ne h ad
settings in this table, and © Meeting appropriate public health © Workplaces are operating safely, and lorkers Cannot work from home, and
© Meeting appropriate public health requirements for their workplace (eg having | & Customers are not allowed on premises, and * They are operating safely, and
ee workplace (eg lmmtainank able ot - ® Businesses can trade without physical contact with customers (eg through phone/online orders, delivery, pick-up | ° "ney are essential services.
. hendwash Se akon © Fuffiling all other health and safety obligations. andl dvettrough), SEapcrsiney solid? meses:
‘uffiling all other health an - ,
obligations. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative | Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is an essential service, emergency or | © Complying with Alert Level 4 settings in the this table, and
ways of working if possible. Business premises critical situation © Meeting appropriate public health requirements for their workplace (eg putting up
can open for staff and customers. Services can physical barriers), and
also be provided on customers’ premises (eg in _| Supermarkets, dairies, and petrol stations can have customers on premises. Retail is poss ble through delivery and a
homes). non-contact collection’at the door, including of prepared food. No consumption of food/drink is allowed by customers | ® Fulfilling all other health and safety obligations.
on premises. This means if a business providing an essential service cannot operate safely,
workers must not go to work and premises should remain closed.
If businesses cannot operate safely, staff must not go to work and premises should remain closed.
_ . Only supermarkets, dairies and petrol/service stations can open their retail premises
‘Operating safely” means: to the public. Essential services must also comply with any specific restrictions on
© Complying with Alert Level 3 settings in this table, and how they operate.
© Meeting appropriate public health requirements for their workplace, including for workers (eg putting up barriers),
and
© Fulfiling all other health and safety obligations.
Essential services operating at Level 4 can operate in the same way at Level 3.
‘Any educational facilities connected toa | Schools and early learning centres can open. __| Early learning centres and schools are open for children in Years 1-10, with appropriate health measures in| All educational facilities closed.
confirmed or probable case of COVID- | e Early leaming centres and schools are open _| Place.
19 must close on an individual or group for all children. Distance learning is available | © Early leaming centres will be open to provide childcare for people who are working. Children will not be able to * Allschools engaged in some form of distance leaming. |
basis for 72 hours to allow contact for those unable to attend school (eg seff- attend playcentres and play groups. Home-based care, education and supervision of young children for more * Necessary tertiary student and some school hostel (where international students
tracing, and then potentially for a further isolating). than one family in a home if public health control measures can be implemented. Children are encouraged to cannot return home and/or it is not safe for domestic students to return home)
ica © Tertiary education facilities open, with stay at home, if caregiving is available. accommodation can remain open.
arrangements made for vulnerable students for | ® Primary and intermediate schools are open. If there is a parent or caregiver available to look after children at
distance leaming. home and school children have access to distance learning, children and young people are encouraged to
i “a continue distance leaming at home.
A ache enee of COVID 19 nat cazc onan’? | ® Secondary schools are open for young people in Years 9 and 10 who may not be able to stay home by
finial oc yroup basis4o077 hours och themselves. All young people in Years 1113 leam from home.
contact tracing, and then potentially for a further | ® Tertiary education facilities open for limited activities involving small groups (up to 10 people), and with distance
14 days. Jeaming provision for others.
Any educational facilities connected to a confirmed or probably case of COVID-19 must close on an individual or
group basis for 72 hours to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days.
g
SENSITIVE
