SENSITIVE
Table 1. Proposed settings for Alert Levels 1 — 4 (Note: restrictions are cumulative, so at Alert Level 4, all restrictions at Alert Levels 2&3 apply).
Roscoe oso RoeSscr Alert Level 4 (current)
[CME Keep out global pandemic. Population | Physical distancing and restrictions on leisure and | Further restrictions on activities, including at workplaces and socially, to address a high risk of transmission within | Strong restrictions to limit all people movement and contact to contain community
prepared for increase in alert levels if | social activities to address sporadic cases or a New Zealand. transmission and outbreaks.
necessa cluster in New Zealand,
TC gmE Be prepared, and be vigilant Businesses open, but physical distancing applies. | Stay athome, other than for essential personal movement, and going to work/school. Stay at home, other than for essential personal movement and doing essential work.
Border measures are in place. People advised to avoid non-essential travel. Stay in extended bubble, which can now include close family or caregivers. Stay in immediate household bubble.
Public health measures in place, but no
physical distancing is needed.
Public health | No physical distancing requirements, People should keep 1 metre apart (especially on | People encouraged to keep 2 metres apart outside home where possible (apart from with people within their People should keep 2 metres apart at all times outside home, including at
measures public transport). extended bubble). This requirement does not apply to emergency and frontline public services (eg healthcare) workplaces. This requirement does not apply to emergency and frontiine public
In a controlled environment such as a workplace, 1 metre distancing is required services (eg healthcare
General public health advice:
© Regularly disinfect surfaces; wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, don't touch your face; stay home if you're sick, report flu-like symptoms.
Contact tracing:
© Ongoing contact tracing for all confirmed and probable new cases of COVID-19, with appropriate isolation measures put in place.
Testing:
© Testing of all potential cases of COVID-19 for people who meet the case definition (ie are displaying relevant symptoms). Tests will take place at dedicated Community-Based Assessment Centres (CBACs) or designated practices.
‘* Random testing within communities (including for people who are asymptomatic) may be carried out locally to inform understanding on the spread of the virus in certain areas
Isolation and quarantine:
© Stringent sett-isolation of those who display relevant symptoms of COVID-19, test positive for COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, or mandatory quarantine/managed isolation for those who have been overseas in the last 14 days. Quarantine
facilities mandated for those who do not have sufficient capacity to seff-isolate effectively.
Border:
© _ Robust border measures in place which safeguard against the risk of COVID-19 being transmitted into New Zealand. Currently, isolation on arrival for 14 days before onward domestic travel (subject to regular review,
Personal | Norestrictions on personal movement. | People asked to stay at home where possible. | People instructed to stay at home, other than for essential personal movement People instructed to stay at home, other than for essential personal movement as
movement | Sports and recreational activities Participating in sports and recreational activities is. | e accessing local services and businesses defined in Health Act order of 3 April 2020.
allowed allowed subject to conditions on gatherings.
© Gong iiwni alii schol (onyinn nse slate), People must stay within their immediate household bubble. There may be
People at higher-risk of severe illness from * Low risk recreation in local area, extended bubbles where there are shared care and custody arrangements. Anyone
COVID-19 (eg those with underiying medical © Stiared and exanded bubble arrangements; who feels unwell must immediately self-isolate from others in their bubble.
conditions, especially if not well-controlled) are i i
encouraged to take additional precautions when : Eriergencies are! Gung elec tto countioniors, Sports and recreational activities allowed if within scope of essential personal
leaving home. They may work, if they agree with Travelling to permitted gatherings, movement as defined in Health Act Order of 3 April 2020.
their employer that they can do so safely. ‘© Relocating a home or business,
© Medical reasons People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (e.g. those with underiying
medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and the elderly) are encouraged
© Those who have an exemption to travel because of compassionate reasons, Hehe mma ee eaae len Eeiag Hiatie: Tie) they Wea, Mia ciate ah
* Foreign nationals leaving New Zealand, their employer that they can do so safely.
‘* New Zealanders resident in the Realm returning home, and
‘© People arriving in New Zealand from overseas and retuning home after 14 days’ isolation/quarantine at port of
arrival (except air and marine crew).
People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can extend this to reconnect with close
family/whanau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive.
‘Anyone who feels unwell must immediately self-isolate from others in their extended bubble.
People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (eg those with underlying medical conditions, especially if
not well-controlled and the elderiy) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may
work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely.
Any new Health Act order for Alert Level 3 will allow all “essential personal movement” currently possible at Alert
Level 4
Travel and No restrictions on freight. All freight can be distr buted and received. Allireight can be distr buted and received, with essential eight proritised.
transport Al freight can enter and leave the country. This includes devanning, delivery to and receipt by businesses (including those
businesses not currently permitted to trade for receipt only) and customers. All freight
can enter and leave the country.
No restrictions on domestic travel People advised to minimise non-essential Travel is allowed for the following essential personal movement in your local area Personal travel (including the use of private cars or public transport) is only
‘Avoid mass transport if sick, awaiting a | travel. iS) AGTOSSaE Nace Seca SNES permitted within territorial authority, and for essential personal movement as
result from a COVID-19 test, or required © Going to work and school " defined in Health Act order of 3 April 2020.
/ recommended to self-isolate. Do not use mass transport if required to self- and Work: ane School,
eck qlasnine  akpenchcng Sariknis ol © Lowrisk recreation in local area
COVID-19, awaiting a resuit from a COVID-19 test, | » Extended bubble arrangements, and
suspected/probable/confirmed to have COVID-19, | omratiod
orif subject to an individual notice issued under BL cae,
section 70(1)(f) of the Health Act. Those travelling on public transport should avoid peak times unless they are going to work or school.
Travel between regions is allowed for the following essential personal movement:
© Workers travelling to do essential work,
© Going to work or school (only in neighbouring region),
© Shared bubble arrangements
© Relocating a home or business,
‘© Those travelling for medical reasons,
© Emergencies and giving effect to court orders,
* Those who have an exemption to travel because of compassionate reasons,
8
SENSITIVE
