IN CONFIDENCE
.
Noting paper: COVID-19
.
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From Hon Dr David Clark, Minister of Date 2/04/2020
Health

Purpose

1. This paper provides advice on the Director General of Health's proposed order under Section
70(1)(f) of the Health Act 1956 to require persons to be quarantined, giving effect to the Level
4 restrictions on self-isolation at home.

2. This paper includes:
a. draft notice of section 70(1)(f) of the Health Act [Appendix 1].

Comment

3. On 24 March the Prime Minister issued, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, an
Epidemic Notice under section 5 of the Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006. This allows for the
use of special powers by Medical Officers of Health in accordance with section 70 of the
Health Act 1956 for the purposes of preventing the outbreak and spread of COVID-19. To date
these powers have been applied on a national basis to require premises to be closed with the
exception of essential businesses and to prohibit mass gatherings (under section 70(1)(m)).

4. Central to New Zealand’s Alert Level 4 “elimination strategy” for COVID-19 is a requirement
that all people in New Zealand self-isolate at home unless they are essential workers. Initial
reports from New Zealand Police and Healthline suggest that ten days on there have been
good levels of community compliance with self-isolation. However, there continue to be people
who are not adequately self-isolating, or who are unclear about the self-isolation
requirements.

a,
pe
PT
ee
ee
a

6. There is a significant risk that non-compliance with self-isolation will result in the continued
transmission of COVID-19, frustrating the objectives of mass isolation, leading to continued
public health risk and the need to extend Alert Level 4.

7. The Director-General of Health (Director-General) assesses that these risks warrant issuing
the draft notice attached to this noting paper under section 70(1)(f) of the Health Act 1956 to
require persons to be quarantined, giving further effect to the Level 4 restrictions on self-

Page 1 of 3
IN CONFIDENCE
