authorise an officer or employee to take the statutory declaration in place of one of the
people authorised under the OD Act.

Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act (Attachment 3)

13. Modifies the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act (‘SSA Act’) to suspend the obligations on
Police and Medical Officers of Health to inquire into any new or renewal alcohol licence
application received or underway. Also suspends the District Licensing Committees’ (‘DLC’)
ability to assume that neither party opposes the application while the COVID-19 Epidemic
Notice is in force. A further modification extends the timeframe for Police and Medica
Officers of Health to file a report with the DLC once the notice is lifted from 15 wo king days
to 30 working days.

Wills Act (Attachment 4)

14. Modifies the Wills Act to remove requirements for witnesses tosbe physically present with
the will maker and to physically sign the same documentwhile the Epidemic Notice is in
force. Relevant documents can instead be signed and witn\ssed.remotely via AVL, with the
will maker and witnesses having a copy of the document befole them.

15. Witnesses will be required to include a statementhatythey have witnessed the maker
signing the relevant document and that they have signed a copy of the same document by
AVL due to the Epidemic Notice being in force. Scans or photos of the copies must be
taken as soon as possible after signing,and\these must be sent to and held by one person.
Other core requirements for making Of, modifying wills remain in place.

Next steps

16. If you approve the three Immediate Modification Orders, | recommend that you take the
attached paper (Attaehment 1) to the COVID-19 Ministerial Group meeting on 16 April.
Following its approval, the Orders can be sent to the Executive Council and signed by the
Governor-General, We*have proposed that the Immediate Modification Orders come into
force the day after hey are gazetted, on Friday 17 April. The paper accordingly seeks
approval/to Waive the 28-day rule on the grounds that the Orders are made in response to
an emergency.

17. Proposed timeframes for finalising the Immediate Modification Orders are set out below:

14 April Minister receives draft Cabinet paper attaching Immediate
Modification Orders. Potential Ministerial consultation
overnight
3
