Page 5 of 5

ONGOING CONSULAR ADVICE TO NEW ZEALANDERS IN CHINA

Additional advice for New Zealanders remaining in China

5. We suggest advising New Zealanders remaining in China to:

5.3. Depart at the earliest opportunity via commercial means. They should
consult their travel agents and airlines directly, as they have access to the
most up-to-date flight information.

5.4. Should they remain in China, they should stay home as much as possible
and limit external contact with others, including avoiding large gatherings.

5.5. Follow New Zealand Ministry of Health guidance for prevention, signs and
symptoms, and treatment of the virus.

5.6. Consider stocking up on food, water and other essential supplies to limit
movement outside the home.

5.7. Register their details on the SafeTravel website.

Note that in the event the situation deteriorates further, the ability of the

New Zealand Embassy and Consulates in China to provide assistance to

New Zealanders within China may be limited.

6. We plan to update our SafeTravel news feature about the novel coronavirus to
add the following advice. This advice will also be sent directly to New
Zealanders registered as being in China on SafeTravel.

We recommend that New Zealanders currently in China depart at the earliest

opportunity via commercial means. We are aware that some airlines have

reduced or suspended flights to and from China but at this stage the major
airports remain open.

Those remaining in China should follow the New Zealand Ministry of Health

guidance for prevention, signs and symptoms, and treatment of the coronavirus

which can be found here [insert link].

Please stay home as much as possible and limit external contact with others,

including avoiding large gatherings.

Consider stocking up on food, water and other essential supplies.

Note that in the event that the situation deteriorates further, the ability of the

New Zealand Embassy and Consulates to provide assistance to New Zealand

nationals within China may be limited.

New Zealanders in China should register their details on Safe Travel.

New Zealanders in need of urgent consular assistance should contact the

Consular Assistance line on: 0800 30 10 30 (in New Zealand) or +64 99 20 20

20 (from elsewhere).

RISK-62-242
