Page 4 of 5

ONGOING CONSULAR ADVICE TO NEW ZEALANDERS IN CHINA

Report

1. A significant number of New Zealanders will still be in China following the
departure of the New Zealand assisted flight from Wuhan to Auckland on 5
February. As at 4 February there are 187 New Zealanders registered on
SafeTravel as being in Wuhan, Hubei province, and 1385 overall in mainland
China. There are also a large number of New Zealand permanent residents
living in China.

2. In line with like-minded partners, we propose updating our advice on our
SafeTravel website to include advice to New Zealanders remaining in mainland
China to take appropriate health precautions. This is in addition to the existing
advice to leave China at the earliest opportunity.

Flight options from China to New Zealand

3. New Zealand government travel advice to New Zealanders is “do not travel due
to the outbreak of novel coronavirus and the associated health risks and travel
restrictions.” Advice to New Zealanders currently in China is to depart at the
earliest opportunity via commercial means. We are aware that some airlines
have suspended flights to and from China. However, there are commercial
flights to New Zealand still operating from major cities. As at 4 February, Air
China, China Southern and China Eastern Airlines are operating direct flights
between New Zealand and China (from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou
respectively).

4. New Zealand citizens who have been in China during the relevant period are no
longer able to transit through Australia, due to border restrictions. There are two
exceptions to this:

4.1. Dual (Australian) citizens or Australian permanent residents,

4.2. New Zealand citizens usually resident in Australia on 444 Special
Category Visas (the standard visa available to all New Zealanders on
arrival). Evidence of residency in Australia will be required.

Other than these exceptions, New Zealand citizens will be treated as non-

citizens and will not be allowed to enter Australia or transit through Australia.

New Zealand has placed the same restrictions on our border in regard to

Australian citizens and permanent residents. We have included this in our

updated travel advice.

RISK-62-242
