4

We would be happy for an extension to be granted on those terms, that is by reference to a

period (twelve weeks to be prudent) after the Covid-19 Alert Level drops to Level 2.

Alternatively, if a fixed date is preferred, we suggest 31 July 2020. This date is premised on

our staff and us being able to work solidly for 12 weeks from the end of April 2020 as the

Alert Level has decreased to Level 2. Whichever option is chosen, there will need to be

some flexibility applied recognising the Covid-19 situation, while enabling the Royal

Commission to continue to drive hard to finalise its report.

The accused’s guilty plea

Finally, we note that on 26 March 2020 the man accused of the attack on Christchurch

mosques pleaded guilty to all charges of murder, attempted murder and the commission of

a terrorist act brought against him and was convicted on all charges. There has been some
& suggestion in the media and by some community members that this event means the Royal

Commission:

@ can now move to public hearings; and
e will now be able to produce its report within a matter of weeks.

We note the Royal Commission does not intend, at this late stage of its work, when all

evidentiary hearings have been undertaken and all evidence has been received, to revisit

the question of public hearings. On balance, we consider the drawbacks associated with the

likely delay of our report would exceed the benefits to be gained by undertaking public

hearings. If, however, you considered it necessary for public hearings to be held, then we

believe this would need to be set out in our Terms of Reference and a further six months set

aside to undertake this role including further funding to enable this to occur.

Financial Implications of the extension

We note that there will be some financial implications associated with the Royal

Commission continuing to function. We are being prudent and minimising costs where we

can, but in order to deliver our report we need ongoing funding to maintain key staff and

ourselves for 12 weeks work. Because of the uncertainty associated with this project we

have asked our Executive Director to work with the Department of Internal Affairs to finalise

these costs once we are back in full operation in order to quantify the amount of funds

required to ensure we can complete our report.

Concluding comments

For the reasons given above, there is no prospect of the report being able to be delivered by

30 April 2020. Put bluntly, Covid-19 Level 4 has significantly impacted our ability to

complete it. We believe that New Zealanders will understand and accept this.

We continue to make good progress towards finalising our report but we need further time,

the ability to access SCIFs and both our staff and us fully healthy. We seek an extension that

Asgs6vlyr4 2020-04-17 08:19:02
