3
The impact of Covid-19 Level 4
While we had been hopeful — in light of the progress described above — that we could
complete our report six weeks after the current deadline of 30 April 2020, the recent events
around Covid-19 now make advancing our report towards completion within that timescale
impossible, for the following reasons:
e Much of the material referred to in our draft report is classified above Restricted.
We can only deal with this material in a SCIF and using an appropriate network. This
is, therefore, an aspect of our work which cannot be carried out by the secretariat
staff and us while working from home. We cannot complete this work while the
Covid-19 Alert Level is above Alert Level 2.
Official
Information Act @  §16(@)S9(2)(Gaylaidl(@)G)lOmicial Information AceI982
1982: s6(a)- to
prejudice the
security or
defence of New
Zealand
5 9(2)(ba) -
information
supplied in
confidence
59(2)(g)(i) - free
and frank
expression of
opinion. ¢ As you will know, at present it is envisaged that Alert Level 4 will be in place for at
least four weeks; it could be longer than that. Hence, neither the Royal Commission
nor the relevant State sector agencies will be in a position to advance matters in
relation to those parts of the report that touch on information classified above
Restricted for as long as the Covid-19 level 4 status remains in place. Since a
significant proportion of the report deals with that type of material, the Royal
Commission is currently in a holding pattern on those parts of the report.
Despite the impact of Covid-19 Alert Level 4 on our work, the Royal Commission is using the
intervening time to good effect. We are working on Parts of our report which do not deal
with highly classified material, considering feedback from relevant State sector agencies,
individuals and non-State sector agencies on those parts of the report that we have
provided to them, and refining and finalising accordingly.
The requested extension date is either (a) 12 weeks after the Covid-19 Alert Level drops to
Alert Level 2 across Auckland, Wellington and Canterbury regions, or (b) 31 July 2020 with
some flexibility to change depending on circumstances.
We believe that we will be able to provide a report within twelve weeks of the Covid-19
Alert Level reverting to Level 2 across Auckland, Wellington and Canterbury regions and thus
enabling us access to SCIFs. This is based on the premise that neither of us nor any of our
staff are impacted by Covid-19 thus enabling us all to be able to access SCIFs in the
mentioned regions.
Asgs6vlyr4 2020-04-17 08:19:02
