SENSITIVE

28. The Royal Commission advises it has made significant progress since November 2019. It
has completed its investigations and its natural justice processes on components of the
draft report with agencies and individuals are well advanced. It advises me it has eight
parts of its report that need to be distributed for natural justice purposes, fact checking,
seeking consent to quote individuals, and agency advice on security classification and
sanitisation of classified information.

29. The Royal Commission has advised me that it has completed its distribution of six of the
eight parts to State Sector agencies and individuals. The Royal Commission still has
some material to be distributed which it is unable to distribute at this time as the
material carries a national security classification.

30. Part H of the Royal Commission’s draft report (which deals with its assessment of the
national security system and the counter-terrorism effort) cannot be distributed at this
time due to the Level 4 COVID-19 response as the material is classified above Restricted
and is held in the sensitive compartmented information facility (SCIF). Once the Royal
Commission has access to the SCIFs again, it will need to distribute individualised
extracts of that material to twenty-one relevant State sector agencies and forty
individuals (including current and former State sector employees).

Impact of COVID-19 shut down

31. While the Royal Commission has good business continuity planning in place, the COVID-
19 pandemic is causing significant disruption to the Royal Commission’s work. Agencies
are continuing to respond to Royal Commission requests, however the requirements for
people to work from home prevents the Royal Commission and agencies from accessing
secure physical environments and constrains the ability of agencies and individuals to
respond to the draft report in the planned timeframes.

32. In addition, it is now apparent that the resources key State Sector agencies need to
divert to New Zealand’s response to COVID-19 will constrain the Royal Commission in
finalising sensitive elements of its report, and likely delay the completion of its work for
an extended period. The Royal Commission also has key person risks with regard to its
Chair and key secretariat staff.

33. | have been clear with the Royal Commission that their report needs to be completed in
a timely way once business returns to normal.

Consideration of an extension

34. 1am advised the Royal Commission requires a longer timeframe within which to produce
a report that accords with the terms of reference. In considering timeframe options for
an extension of the final report, we must consider a range of factors. In addition, we
need to ensure that the Royal Commission operates safely (and pauses some of its
activities) during the Level 4 response to the pandemic.

35. When considering an extension, we must be conscious of the need for the Royal
Commission’s report to provide assurance to the affected communities and the broader
public. The Royal Commission’s terms of reference empower it to make interim
recommendations on any step necessary to ensure public safety. No such

5
SENSTIVE
1sgs6vlyr4 2020-04-17 08:18:33
