SENSITIVE
Inquiry Terms of Reference

20. The terms of reference require the Royal Commission to make findings on several
matters, notably;

20.1. Was any information otherwise available to relevant State sector agencies that
could or should have alerted them to the attack?

20.2. Was there any failure in information sharing between the relevant State sector
agencies?

20.3. Did relevant State sector agencies fail to anticipate or plan for the attack due to
an inappropriate concentration of counter-terrorism resources/priorities?

20.4. Did any relevant State sector agencies fail to meet required standards?

21. The Royal Commission must make recommendations on how such attacks could be
prevented in the future. This has meant that it must identify the salient characteristics
of the attack and consider whether New Zealand's systems are sufficiently robust to
prevent a similar attack in the future.

22. The Royal Commission is also required to consider making recommendations about
whether improvements in information gathering, sharing and analysis practices could
prevent such attacks in the future. It must also make recommendations about what
changes, if any, should be implemented to improve relevant State sector agency systems
or operational practices, to ensure the prevention of such attacks in the future.

23. The terms of reference also refer to the need to “reassure the New Zealand public,
including its Muslim communities” and an expectation that the Royal Commission
“connect[s] with New Zealand’s Muslim communities”.

Progress to date

24. On 13 May 2019, the Royal Commission began considering evidence and issued its first
Update setting out what it is required to examine. It also began its community
engagement that week. The Royal Commission has also met with State sector leaders,
individuals, and experts.

25. The Royal Commission began receiving public submissions from 1 July 2019. When
submissions closed on 27 September 2019 it had received almost 1,100 submissions
from a range of interested parties.

26. The Royal Commission determined that some State sector agencies not named in the
terms of reference have information that falls within the scope of the Royal
Commission. These agencies are relevant to the issues that it has been asked to
investigate in the terms of reference and in respect of the systems on which it is
required to make recommendations. The Royal Commission expanded its collection of
information from state sector agencies to include these additional agencies.

27. In order to meet natural justice requirements under section 14 of the Inquiries Act 2013,
the Royal Commission must validate and canvass its findings with affected individuals
and relevant State sector agencies.

4
SENSITIVE
1sgs6vlyr4 2020-04-17 08:18:33
