8. The Ministry of Transport will work with the providers of transport services to support
them to implement these changes. The Ministry will also work with providers to monitor
demand and consider any further changes that need to occur.

9. If passenger services are unable to support all those demanding transport to return
home by Friday 27 March, then further decisions about extensions could be delegated
to the National Controller.

Financial Implications

10. There are no financial implications.

Communications

11. In order to help maintain compliance with the move to level_4 ‘rules and to support
KiwiRail crew health and safety, any communication on thisfexensi6n is proposed to
be limited to discussing the extension until Friday 27 a

12. Concern has been raised by KiwiRail about publicly €ofimunicating that further
extension could be reviewed or provided by the CO Controller.

Recommendations @)

<=

| recommend that the Committee:

1. note that transport services across, Neko are being in inundated with passenger
demand as people seek to return ‘ho international travellers move to their final
destinations across New Zealand \ J

\

2. note that this demand is unlikely i ibe cleared before the country moves to level 4 at 2359
hours Wednesday 24 ie

3. agree that internationabvisitors to New Zealand who have completed 14 days isolation and
declared Covid-free|will % allowed to use all forms of permitted transport e.g. domestic air
travel, ferries, an@ypublietransport to get to another location in New Zealand before 2359
hours Friday 2% Mareh (if that is their final destination and they will then need to comply
with the obligations: to stay home like everyone else once there).

4. agree 6 her people are able to use all forms of permitted transport e.g. domestic air travel,
ferrie)) and,public transport to return home before 2359 hours Friday 27 March (if that is
theiftfinal destination and they will then need to comply with the obligations to stay home
like“eyveryone else).

5. note that following this time, services will only be provided to essential services, including
freight services.

6. note that passenger services are expected to implement protective measures that are
appropriate for their services, in particular KiwiRail has noted that it is reducing passenger
numbers on the ferries to support social distancing and provide cabins to enable isolation
for any passengers that required it.

Page 2 of 3
