In Confidence
Office of the Minister of Transport

Chair

Cabinet COVID Committee

EXTENSION OF PERMITTED DOMESTIC TRANSPORT SERVICES,

Proposal

1. This paper proposes that domestic passenger transport services are” permitted to
continue to provide services until 2359 hours on Friday 27 Marcha2020 to New
Zealanders returning home and international visitors who have completed self-isolation
and are declared COVID-free to move to their final destinatioNs im’New Zealand. It
requests that any further extensions to this period oy to the National
Controller. )

Extension of permitted domestic transport services

2. Domestic passenger services, in raricugep Cohn ferry services and domestic
air services, are being in inundated with demandsirom passengers ahead of the country
moving to COVID level 4 at the end of Wednesday 24 March 2020. It is unlikely that the
demand for the services can be met before the move to level 4.

3. The demand is being generated tr, ngers seeking to return home to comply with
level four requirements. Theré"is. igo Jemand from international tourists who are
completing self-isolation and de€lalled COVID free to move to their final destination in
New Zealand.

S74 ,

4. It is recommended pane Committee provide an extension to allow domestic
passenger services*to provide services to New Zealanders and international travellers
who have complaied git isolation and declared COVID free until 2359 hours on Friday
27 March. Itvis}re mended that this should apply to Cook Straight ferry services,
domestic AC €es, but also private cars and public transport.

5. The applicaton to international travellers should only be to support travellers to move
#to,their final destinations to then also comply with self-isolation requirements.

6. Following this time, services will only be provided to essential services, including freight
Services.

7. Different modes of transport will need to take different approaches to manage the
demand and also support passengers and staff to minimise the risk of COVID moving
between people. In particular KiwiRail has noted that it is reducing passenger
numbers on the ferries to support social distancing and provide cabins to enable
isolation for any passengers that required it (for example elderly passengers).

Page 1 of 3
