Prison border control measures

6 From 1am Tuesday 24 March 2020, all private and volunteer visits were suspended. No
significant incidents have so far occurred as a result of this suspension, A number of
prisoners and their whanau have expressed their disappointment. However, many have
acknowledged the need for this, with some families expressing gratitude that Corrections
is protecting their family member in our care. Given the new alert level, at 11:59pm on 25
March 2020 all visits from statutory bodies (including the Office of the Ombudsman),
specified visitors and legal advisers are suspended. The temporary cessation of these
visits is a significant step.

7 It should be noted that the functions undertaken by the Office of the Ombudsman, provide
vital safeguards through OPCAT Inspection Reports. We have engaged extensively with
the Chief Ombudsman regarding the suspension of visits and have agreed to work
together to ensure that we jointly enable the best conditions for prisoners. The Office of
the Ombudsman is currently developing a model that will enable the Chief Ombudsman to
fulfil the intent of his role while maintaining safety.

8 We are communicating with the President of the Law Society and the President of the
Criminal Bar Association regarding how best to enable legal access to prisoners without
physical visits through this period.

Screening and quarantining of prisoners

9 From 11:59pm 25 March, all sites receiving new prisoners will hold them in a separate unit
for 14 days. During this 14-day period they will be monitored for any signs or symptoms of
infection. Any new prisoners will be screened when being received, and if they show any
symptoms they will be held in quarantine and tested. These quarantine and testing
measures also apply to existing prisoners who show signs or symptoms.

10 Staff are wearing Personal Protective Equipment when interacting with these prisoners
and are taking guidance and advice from Health Services staff and the Ministry of Health.
There remains no confirmed cases of COVID-19 in any of our prisons. As at 4pm 25
March 2020 there have been six prisoners received into Mt Eden Corrections Facility who
showed symptoms of COVID-19 and who have been tested. Five of these prisoners are in
quarantine and one has been released due to time served. The results of their tests are
expected tomorrow. Any prisoner who is released prior to their results being known will be
provided an advisory note explaining how they can obtain their result, along with advice
from our health services teams on self-isolating.

11. The new measures that come into effect tonight are expected to reduce the risk of
COVID-19 within our prisons. -

Impact on the prison population

12 Weare currently working to understand how events surrounding COVID-19 may impact
on the prison population. Predicting changes in the prison population can be difficult
normally, and events related to COVID-19 make this an unprecedented situation. There
are a range of potential drivers that could increase or reduce the prison population.

.

3
B4009
