22 None of the above provisions al fect the requirement thai e Parole Board may only direct
the release of a prisoner on parole if satisfied that the prisoner will not pose an undue risk.
Without these changes enabling parole to function, people in prison will have their release
dates extended, with a flow on impact on prison beds.

23 The second Epidemic Management Notice relates to the Sentencing Act and will provide
probation officers with the power to vary, cancel or suspend aspects of
sentences. Normally these powers sit almost entirely with the judiciary. The proposed
powers will allow a probation officer to:
® vary, cancel and suspend conditions of a sentence of supervision or sentence of

intensive supervision,

e remit the hours of community work for offenders — but no more than eight hours in any
week, and no more the lesser of 48 hours in total or one-third of the sentence
imposed,

e extend the maximum time to complete a community work sentence by up to twelve
months,

e vary the curfew period for community detention, and

e vary the special conditions or the post detention conditions of a sentence of home
detention.

Contractors

24 Corrections is one of seven agencies identified as providing essential services in the
Public Safety and National Security areas. This includes staff of and contractors to
Corrections and their supply chain entities that are providing an essential service.

25 In the core custodial services space Corrections is a demand-taker 24/7 operation, and
most of our 5,000 front-line prison staff will continue to be on duty at work throughout alert
level 4. They are supported by several different service supply chains that have been
pared back to business continuity and reactive maintenance duties.

26 Building and construction work related to essential services and critical infrastructure has
also been classified as an essential service. As such it is our understanding that.

e The maintenance, building and construction work that keep the current prison network
operating in a safe and effective way is an essential service.

e Inflight delivery of prison capacity that is essential to the safe and effective operation
of the prison network in the short term — critically the ability to continue to operate
through emergency conditions associated with the Covid-19 response is also an
essential service. ©

5
B4009 -
