2
am therefore writing to you to request that the Crown indemnity provided to the Reserve Bank
‘on 21 March 2020 be extended to cover losses associated with the purchase of up to $3 billion
of LGFA debt, in addition to the purchase of $30 billion of New Zealand Government debt
Previously agreed. The Bank is not seeking a change to the existing 18 month duration in which
assets purchased by the Bank are eligible under the indemnity. The Bank asks that LGFA debt
purchased as a reinvestment of LGFA debt held within the LSAP programme, within or after
the 18 month timeframe, be eligible under the indemnity.
This request is in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister
of Finance and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand regarding the use of alternative monetary
policy tools (MoU) dated 21 March 2020.
‘The case for purchasing LGFA debt under the LSAP programme has been assessed against
the principles set out in the Bank’s Unconventional Monetary Policy Principles and Tools
document. As described above, purchasing this debt will help lower interest rates and
improve the transmission and effectiveness of monetary policy. It will support market
efficiency and financial stability by bringing confidence and stability to New Zealand debt
markets, through the provision of much needed liquidity, currently unobtainable through
normal market channels. In addition, it will not materially increase the public balance sheet
risk associated with the LSAP programme and the Bank is operationally ready to purchase
LGFA debt
The LSAP programme would continue to be designed to minimise distortions in the
Government debt market, as well as minimising distortions in other credit markets including
the market for LGFA debt. The Bank will closely monitor the effect of its Government debt
Purchases on the functioning of financial and credit markets and on financial stability risks, and
will adapt its purchase operations when necessary. The Bank will also continue to work with
the Treasury's Capital Markets unit when planning operations under the LSAP programme.
The risk control framework, agreed with the Treasury following announcement of the LSAP.
programme on 23 March, will also be updated to reflect the risks associated with the purchase
‘of LGFA debt. As with the purchase of New Zealand Government debt, the key financial risk
relates to interest rate risk, which is influenced by the future path of the OCR. The Bank will
face some credit risk when purchasing LGFA debt, however, this risk is relatively small given
its high credit quality. We ask that the Crown indemnify the Bank against losses due to both
the interest rate risk and credit risk that is associated with the purchase of LGFA debt under
the LSAP programme.
‘The Bank will continue to report to the Treasury monthly on the transactions undertaken as
Part of the LSAP programme, including information on the scale of operations and the
associated gains or losses associated with the purchase of each asset class. This information
will also be included in the Bank's Annual Report and in more frequent public reporting,
provided that information can be provided in a way that did not compromise the efficacy of the
LSAP programme.
The MPC will continue to monitor the effectiveness of monetary policy, including the LSAP
programme, and its broad impact on the economy and financial system. This includes an
assessment of whether the current monetary policy settings provide the right amount of
stimulus to meet the MPC’s economic objectives. This analysis will be set out in the upcoming
May Monetary Policy Statement. Should the MPC determine that a change in the scale,
‘duration or asset classes included in the LSAP programme is necessary to meet its economic
objectives, the Bank will write to you to request a change in the indemnity, as per the MoU.
