Zz RESERVE meray
BANK Governor
OF NEW ZEALAND
6 April 2020,
Hon Grant Robertson
Minister of Finance
The Beehive
Wellington
Dear Hon Grant Robertson
AS you are aware, on 21 March 2020, the Crown provided the Reserve Bank (the ‘Bank’) with
an indemnity for the purchase of up to a maximum of $30 billion New Zealand Government
debt on the Secondary market over the following 18 months, financed by central bank money.
Following that decision, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) agreed on 22 March 2020 to
approve a programme of large scale asset purchases (LSAP) of New Zealand Government
debt to a total volume of $30 billion over 12 months. This reflected the impact of the COVID-
19 outbreak on the global and domestic economies, which compromised the MPC’s ability to
meet its economic objectives using its conventional monetary policy tool (a positive Official
Cash Rate (OCR).
The Bank began purchases under the LSAP programme on 25 March 2020. To date, the LSAP_
programme has been successful in improving conditions in the New Zealand Government debt
market. Liquidity in the market has improved, bond yields have declined and the yield curve
has stabilised relative to conditions a few weeks ago. This provides stimulus to the New
Zealand economy as a well-functioning government bond market is essential for the pricing of
‘other debt instruments in New Zealand and lowering Government bond yields lowers the
interest rates faced by New Zealand households and businesses. As a result, the LSAP.
programme is helping the MPC achieve its economic objectives as specified in the remit and
section 8 of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act (1989)), namely: (a) achieving and
Maintaining stability in the general level of prices over the medium term; and (b) supporting
maximum sustainable employment.
Over recent weeks, however, the Bank has observed signs of significant dislocation in other
New Zealand debt markets, caused by a combination of the near-closure of global credit
markets, domestic intermediaries reducing risk due to increased market volatility, and fund
managers liquidating their holdings in order to meet redemptions.
There is particular concen about the dislocation and lack of liquidity in the market for New
Zealand Local Government Funding Agency (LGFA) debt. LGFA debt provides a critical
benchmark for non-government credit instruments in New Zealand, and in normal times is the
most liquid part of this market. A persistent lack of liquidity would have a deep and lasting
detrimental impact on the confidence in New Zealand's debt capital markets, which will
increase interest rates in New Zealand more broadly and inhibit the transmission of monetary
Policy. This presents a threat to the achievement of the MPC’s economic objectives.
