Page 3 of 9
pick up the remaining passengers. On completion of the flights, the Australian aircraft
would return to Melbourne’.

10. The Ministry of Health (MoH) has determined that the health risk of using an Australian
plane and crew to complete these essential tasks can be managed provided the crew
fulfil MoH risk mitigation requirements, namely the “Advice to airline crew on precautions
to reduce risk of COVID-19 infection”. These requirements have been communicated to
both the USAP and the Australian crew and both have agreed to the measures.

11. The MoH has confirmed that there are currently no COVID-19 related risks associated
with people coming from Antarctica; COVID-19 is not present in Antarctica.

12. The returning US and New Zealand personnel have all been in Antarctica for more than
four weeks. The USAP and Antarctica New Zealand have given assurance that the
returning personnel will go into self-funded self-isolation upon arrival in New Zealand. For
the US personnel, this will be either until they are evacuated from New Zealand (in
accordance with any requirements for the evacuation of foreign nationals), or after 14
days have passed, whichever is soonest. If the US personnel are still in New Zealand
after a 14 day self-isolation, they would comply with the Alert Level Four restrictions.

s6(a), s7(a)(iv)

15. Ministry of Transport advises that the Civil Aviation Act 1990 requires that non-scheduled
flights, such as those proposed between Antarctica and New Zealand, are authorised by
the Secretary for Transport or delegate. If Ministers agree that the essential flights from/to
Antarctica can proceed, the Australian aircraft operator would be expected to follow its
normal past practice and apply to the Ministry of Transport for authorisation.

16. Given that the MoH advises that the health risks of both the Australian aircraft and crew,
and the personnel returning from the US and New Zealand Antarctic programmes can be
managed, it is recommended that the Committee agree to the continuation of essential
flights to Antarctica in April as outlined above.

' Christchurch is the most accessible gateway city from McMurdo Station. This is why the Australian

aircraft is scheduled to fly from McMurdo to Christchurch rather than returning directly to Melbourne

from Antarctica.

POLI-32-6786
