Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs

Chair

Cabinet COVID-19 Committee

COVID-19 ANTARCTIC ISSUES: PROVIDING EMERGENCY AND ESSENTIAL SUPPORT

TO ANTARCTIC STATIONS THROUGH NEW ZEALAND

Proposal

1 This paper responds to the direction from the COVID-19 Committee on 18 March
(CVD-20-MIN-0017 refers) to provide further advice to Ministers on related issues
concerning travel to and from Antarctica. This paper also seeks decisions to ensure
that emergency and essential support can continue to be provided to keep Antarctic
stations in the Ross Sea region safe, in the context of limiting the spread of
COVID-19 in New Zealand or in Antarctica and in line with New Zealand’s role as an
Antarctic ‘gateway’ country.

2 In particular, the paper seeks Ministers’ consideration of three cases of movement of
people, aircraft and vessels. These are:

2.1 enabling flights to deliver essential supplies to Antarctica and return
New Zealand and American personnel from Antarctica to New Zealand in
April;

2.2 permitting the Republic of Korea’s Ice Breaker Araon, currently en route from
Antarctica, to berth at Lyttelton harbour on 9 April, disembark four
New Zealand citizens and one New Zealand resident and 15 foreign nationals,
and re-provision for the onward journey to the Republic of Korea; and

2.3. noting New Zealand’s search and rescue coordination obligations for the Ross
Sea Sector of the Antarctic, which include coordinating aircraft and vessels to
undertake any medical or other evacuations that may be required.

Background

The Impact of COVID-19 on Emergency and Essential Support to Antarctic Stations

3

April
is the month in which the transition from summer to winter arrangements are made;
winter supplies need to be delivered and summer Antarctic programme personnel
need to return.

4 New Zealand has a legal obligation to coordinate search and rescue for the Ross Sea
sector of Antarctica. We also provide communications, logistics support, and
preparedness for emergency response, including potentially medical evacuation.

5 These movements of people and essential cargo are predicated on legally binding
cooperation agreements with Antarctic partner countries — namely the United States,
South Korea and Italy. In addition to commitments on cooperation on scientific
research, these agreements cover matters such as entry to and transit through
New Zealand as a “gateway” to Antarctica. Movements are also predicated on
