Page 4 of 9

Republic of Korea Ice Breaker — Araon

17. Araon left Antarctica on 22 March and is currently en route to Lyttelton, where, under
normal circumstances, it would re-provision, offload passengers and cargo, and then
continue its voyage to the Republic of Korea. There are 20 passengers on board seeking
to disembark. By the time of arrival in New Zealand all passengers and crew will have
been at sea for 18 days.

18. The Araon must re-fuel for its onward journey and allowing resupply supports our status
as a responsible maritime state. As the search and rescue state responsible for this
region it would be unwise for New Zealand to refuse entry and place the ship at
heightened risk due to lack of fuel and provisions. |s9(2)(h)

MOH has assessed that there
are no health risks associated with the Araon berthing. The port has necessary
preventative measures in place regarding the required pilotage and interactions between
the ship and the port.

19. The passengers seeking to disembark are four New Zealand citizens, one New Zealand
resident (UK citizen), one Canadian, and 14 Italians. |s6(a), s7(a)(iv)

The remaining nine Korean
passengers and one Russian passenger will remain on board and will continue to the
Republic of Korea.

20. Berthing of the Araon at Lyttelton allows for the disembarkation of four New Zealand
citizens on-board. This is preferable to them remaining on board and voyaging on to the
Republic of Korea where the New Zealand citizens could potentially become consular
cases, seeking New Zealand government assistance to return to New Zealand.

21. MOH has agreed that the time spent at sea and the absence of reports of COVID-19
related health issues presents a low health risk. MoH also considers that their time at
sea means the passengers and crew of the have already completed the equivalent of a
self-isolation period. On this basis, the MoH are comfortable with the arrival of the vessel
and the disembarkation of passengers, subject to current health assessment practice,
and provided practical arrangements for meeting Alert Level Four restrictions and any
further requirements for the evacuation of foreign nationals can be met. Officials will
assess the arrangements made by the passengers prior to disembarkation, and
Government officials, including from Ministry of Health, will need to be satisfied as to the
adequacy of the proposed self-isolation arrangements upon arrival. All passengers
proposed to disembark Araon will go into self-funded self-isolation. For the foreign
nationals, this will be until such time as they are evacuated from New Zealand (and in
accordance with requirements for the evacuation of foreign nationals) or the 14 days
have passed, whichever is soonest. If the Italian and Canadian personnel were still in
New Zealand after a 14 day period of self-isolation, they would then be required to
comply with the Alert Level Four restrictions.

22.59(2)(h), s6(a)

POLI-32-6786
