Background

1. On Saturday 1 February at 20:00 hrs, Cabinet met via teleconference to discuss the evolving
epidemiology of the Novel Coronavirus and the New Zealand border response.

2. Due to the urgency of the issue, the following Ministers were give Power to Act: :

Prime Minister, Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern,
Rt Hon Winston Peters
Hon Grant Robertson
Hon David Parker |
Hon Dr David Clark &@
Hon Chris Hipkins
Hon Kelvin Davis.
.-[DPMC Meeting mi id 2 Feb 2020 refers}

3. On 2 February 2020, Ministers with Power to Act receivéd: %

a. updated public health advice, titled “Health advi ropriate border measures for
novel coronavirus” and Y :

b. economic impact advice on border clo fresh ed “Economic Impact of a two-week or
three-month border closure to Chinese lonals”.

Recommended actions @ . \

4. — Officials have identified a set of ich’ could be taken to strengthen the border and
minimise the impact of the co! rus. Ministers are therefore asked to confirm that the
following border renee ented to strengthen the NZ border response:

a) change the offici: eye vice for China to Level 4, “do not travel to any part of
mainland Chi

b) ° extend tl Kesha in the case definition for novel coronavirus infection to include
travel land China (previously this was Hubei province in China, particularly

W :

c) fo 9 Zealand be denied to people who have left or transited through
& id China from 2 February 2020, with the exception of:

a.” New Zealand citizens (including those from the three Countries of the Realm),
permanent residents and their immediate family (see below)

b. air crews (we will endeavour to ensure they have been using appropriate
personal protective equipment (PPE) — further advice will be provided - see note
below).

=~
d) all flights from mainland China will be met by public health staff.
e) all travellers arriving out of mainland China be asked or required to self-isolate for a
period-of 14 days from the time they leave mainland China.
f) passengers will be provided with information about what self-isolation entails.
In Confidence 3
