22 We will look to defer any new obligations failures and introduce minimal re-compliance
activities, such as phone calls, for clients with an existing obligations failure. This will
impact approximately 1,500 clients.

There is an opportunity to free up capacity by delaying the introduction of emergency

housing co-payments

23 Currently, Emergency Housing Special Needs Grants cover the full cost of the client and
their family’s accommodation. Cabinet have previously agreed to introduce a 25 percent
of income co-payment for clients receiving Emergency Housing Special Needs Grants, if
they have remain in emergency housing for more than seven days (emergency housing
co-payment). This will align emergency housing assistance with other forms of
assistance that contribute to accommodation costs.

24 This is to commence from 30 March 2020, which has been publicly announced and
communicated to clients.

25 The IT system changes required are close to completion. However, this new emergency
housing co-payment will require significant resourcing to administer, as much of the
Process is manual. The process is expected to require approximately 21 full-time
equivalents (FTEs) frontline staff to administer.

26 It is timely to consider whether commencement should be delayed. Delaying would free
up staff capacity to focus on COVID-19 related initiatives and demand instead. It would
also ensure that in the changing economic environment, with potential for significant job
losses, we are not unnecessarily creating stress for clients in emergency housing.

27 Should you and Cabinet agree, the start date could be delayed for an initial period of six
months. This will need to be communicated urgently to staff and clients. Subject to
Cabinet’s agreement, we will provide you with a further report to reverse the changes to
the Special Needs Grants Welfare Programme.

28 Note we still recommend implementing the ‘three-weeks of payment’ component of the
changes, as this will reduce engagement with clients. The IT build for the emergency
housing co-payment will also remain ready, so a rapid commencement at a future date
would be possible.

Tranche Two: Options that require legislative change or further work

to implement

29 Tranche Two includes a number of initiatives that require further work to implement,
either due to the need to design new business processes, IT changes or regulatory
change.

30 For example, we need to complete further analysis on extending Temporary Additional
Support and 52-week reapplications. These decisions could have a significant positive
impact on staff and clients but carry higher long-term fiscal risk.

31 This tranche also includes options which are lower priority due to having less impact.

32 Tranche Two would include:

32.1 deferring reviews of health conditions for Supported Living Payment clients and
Child Disability Allowance clients

32.2 deferring Emergency Benefit expiries

32.3 deferring the need for Temporary Additional Support reapplications

32.4 clearing any upcoming 52-week reapplications for Jobseeker Support and Sole
Parent Support clients

32.5 modifying verification and application requirements for clients, such as the need to
provide hard copies or have face-to-face meetings (eg for Emergency Housing).

33 We will provide you with further advice about timing for Tranche Two implementation.
We expect that any agreed measures will also be active for six months initially.

Impact of COVID-19 on the Ministry of Social Development's operating model 5
