Initiative Description Volume of Authorising Client impact Implications BORE impact How much
engagement environment (IT/operational/risk) operational
capacity would it
free up
Medical certificates/health system interactions
Remove or relax need Applicants for SLP will no longer ~850 work capacity MSD has discretion to May miss out on EB has an income and Not costed Low - as it still
to provide work need to provide a medical medical certificates use alternative forms of other assistance due asset test. Some requires staff to
capacity medical certificate upon application, but received per month | evidence for eligibility to to no discussion applicants may not Assume that clients grant a benefit
certificates for can provide alternative evidence as part of an SLP SLP on health condition, around cost/medical qualify due to excess would be put onto EB
Supported Living electronically or be granted EB application injury and disability needs (eg, DA/TAS) assets. Also, may be and paid at the SLP For all medical
Payment (SLP) grounds. difficult to determine rate. certificate related
applications Note - could not include SLP ~10,200 per annum appropiate (eke: initiatives, likely to
carer applications as Potential SLP clients Unknown if there free up 16.5 FTE
(initial certificate) requirement for medical may be disadvantaged would be a across
certificate is in primary behavioural impact centralised services
legislation Will require that would result in and contact centres
communications for additional
staff, clients and GPs applications - assume
that rest of Covid-19
Economic Response
Package would
mitigate this risk.
Remove or relax need Applicants for JS-HCD currently ~4,200 work The requirement for an May miss out on Risk MSD may grant Not costed Low - as it still
to provide work must provide an initial medical capacity medical initial medical certificate being granted SLP or benefit to clients who requires staff to
capacity medical certificate of reduced capacity to certificates received is set out in primary other disability- may not be eligible. Assumes that clients grant a benefit
certificates for work. per month as part legislation for JS-HCD related assistance. would be put onto
Jobseeker Support with This initiative would involve of a JS-HCD Will require EB. Since EB is paid _For all medical
a health condition, granting EB instead. application MSD has existing communications for atthe same rate as _certificate related
injury or disability (JS- discretion to grant EB staff, clients and GPs. JS, there should be initiative, likely to
HcD) ~50,000 per instead. no fiscal impact. free up 16.5 FTE
annum Unknown if there across
(initial certificate) would be a centralised services
behavioural impact and contact centres
that would results in
additional
applications - assume
that rest of Covid-19
Economic Response
Package would
mitigate this risk.
Other
Further changes to In addition to the above For example, there | Changes to the Special Possibility for clients Risk MSD may grant to Unknown Unknown
streamline the proposals, explore further are around 300 Needs Grants Welfare to get quicker access clients who may not be
application, verification | changes to streamline processes funeral grants per Programme may be to financial in hardship.
and payment of around hardship grants given month - this could required. assistance.
hardship grants increased demand is likely. increase due to Will require
COVID-19. communications for
staff, advocates and
clients.
