We must prepare to deliver services differently in response to

COVID-19

2. The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) generally has the capacity to manage
unforeseen events, such as natural disasters and other emergencies. However, COVID-
19 has had an unprecedented societal and economic impact on New Zealand and will
continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

3 We expect these impacts will exceed MSD’s current capacity to take on new work and
maintain current levels of services, requiring MSD to change how it operates to:

3.1 manage the increase in demand for financial support
3.2 keep staff and clients safe and reduce the risk of COVID-19 community
transmission.

4 With these objectives in mind, we need to make urgent changes to our operating model.
This means looking at the processes that we can minimise or remove to limit interactions
between staff and clients (‘physical distancing’), while ensuring people still receive the
support they need.

We propose three phases of initiatives that will manage demand and

reduce the need for face-to-face support

5 The attached table (Appendix One) outlines some of the specific changes MSD could
make in order to achieve the above objectives.

6 We have used the following criteria to help us prioritise initiatives to progress:

6.1 Ease of implementation (for example, no legislative change required)

6.2 Potential to free up staff capacity

6.3 Potential impact on clients (for example, continued access to financial assistance
and reduced compliance activities)

6.4 Possible risk in terms of fiscal cost or longer-term precedent created.

7 Separate to the criteria described above, we have also prioritised initiatives that will
reduce demand in the health system.

8 We propose delivering the specified initiatives in three phases, outlined in further detail
below. Appendix Two outlines the assessment of individual initiatives against the above
criteria.

9 Our key assumptions for progressing these initiatives are that:

9.1 critical services continue running

9.2 demand for services is beyond MSD’s current capacity due to the economic impact
of COVID-19 (such as administering the Wage Subsidy and Leave Payment
schemes), alongside a reduction in frontline staff able to support clients’

9.3 we need to reduce proactive engagement with clients due to the need for ‘physical
distancing’.

10 Demand for the Wage Subsidy scheme has already been higher than expected. As at
11pm on Saturday 21 March 2020, MSD had received applications from employers for a
COVID-19 Wage Subsidy in respect of 137,400 employees.

’ We are not yet able, in terms of IT systems and technology, to have all case managers work remotely

in a role similar to a Customer Service Representative.
Impact of COVID-19 on the Ministry of Social Development’s operating model 3
