Tranche 2
(further work required to be implemented, likely for an initial period of six months)
Initiative Description Volume of Authorising Client impact Implications BORE impact How much
engagement environment (IT/operational/risk) operational
capacity would it
free up
Clear any 52-week This will extend out all upcoming ~25,000 clients Regulation amendment Positive impact as Could keep paying High Moderate: changes
reapplication for reapplication dates to 104 have a 52-week required - requirement clients will not need clients who are no to TAS and 52-week
Jobseeker Support (JS) weeks. reapplication expiry for reapplication for JS to go through longer eligible. $50m for 12 months reapplication
and Sole Parent Support or letter due to be and SPS are set out in reapplication process periods can free up
(SPS) NB: This is the only initiative sent in the next primary legislation, but — and will not lose 13.5 FTE for contact
where the change has to be in month the time period and access to financial centres and 4 FTE
place beyond the initial period of compulsory work assistance for centralised
six months, due to what IT ~Roughly 300,000 assessment are set out services, This does
changes are feasible in the per annum in regulations not estimate the
timeframes. impact on service
centre staff.
Verification and Applications
Modifying application Proposal to modify current ~4.3 million There are no specific Clients could be Will require Not costed Hard to estimate
and verification verification process by removing documents for prescribed verification either be over or development of whole capacity - likely to
requirements for new the need to provide hard copies evidence per annum requirements in primary underpaid as it is new processes and have minimal
clients, including for or have face-to-face meetings. legislation, so MSD has _ harder to get fulland guidelines around new impact as this is
emergency housing flexibility around how to correct entitlement application processes. about changing
For example, most emergency verify information. right without more channels that
housing applications are already rigorous client Taking high trust clients go through.
phone-based unless the client engagement. approach trades off
requests an in-person against potential for Note - re-allocating
appointment. May be difficult for getting it wrong. case managers to
clients with access contact centres is
needs or for those Likely to increase not straightforward
that prefer face-to- demand for Contact or feasible in some
face Centre support. instances
Need to consider what
happens when we go
back to ‘business as
usual’, for example
retrospective
verification of
information provided
electronically.
