Tranche One: priority options that can be progressed immediately

11 MSD has the discretion to implement some changes that could free up staff capacity and
improve client experience immediately.

12 We propose that Tranche One includes:

12.1 temporarily removing the requirement for Jobseeker - Health Condition and
Disability (JS HCD) clients to provide subsequent work capacity medical certificates
(generally for existing clients this could be up to every 4 weeks, as required by a
2010 Cabinet decision [CAB Min (10)7/10]) — this would impact approximately
30,000 clients a month

12.2 deferring any Special Benefit expiries — this would impact 1,600 clients currently
receiving a Special Benefit

12.3 deferring Disability Allowance reviews of cost and medical eligibility — this would
impact approximately 26,000 clients a month

12.4 deferring other annual reviews of client circumstances - this would impact
approximately 74,000 additional clients a month.

13 These options will require communications to frontline staff and clients, along with
relatively straight forward IT system changes. They can be implemented by Friday 27
March 2020. We propose that any of these temporary arrangements should be active for
an initial period of six months. The changes will mean that clients continue to receive
welfare assistance at their current rates of payments, and we will rely on them to inform
us if their circumstances change.

14 The deferral of review dates means that when the operating model returns to ‘business
as usual’, there will be staggered dates of review (ie they will not all be due at once),

15 Note that we previously advised there would be a significant IT cost and lead in time
needed to improve the flexibility of work capacity medical certificate requirements
(REP/19/12/1282 refers). However, the proposal in this paper is different as it simply
pushes out all JS HCD clients’ due dates for a work capacity medical certificate by six
months (alongside other reviews), requiring only relatively straightforward IT changes.

We need to cease all proactive engagement with clients to manage demand and

reduce opportunities for community transmission

16 MSD currently uses proactive engagement with clients for a number of purposes, in
particular:

16.1 providing direct employment support to individual clients looking for work

16.2 requiring clients with high numbers of hardship grants to attend a face-to-face
appointment

16.3 managing debt collection for current and former clients.

17 These activities require significant frontline staff resourcing, alongside some face-to-face
engagement with clients.

18 This holds the risk of creating opportunities for COVID-19 community transmission.
Given this and the demand pressures MSD will continue to face, we recommend that all
proactive engagement with clients for the purposes outlined above ceases.

19 Note MSD will continue to work with businesses on redeploying people in affected
industries and/or filling emerging labour market shortages.

20 This will mean that MSD will be unlikely to require clients to complete work-related
activities as part of their obligations to take steps to find suitable employment, as this
would not be reasonable in most circumstances.

21 MSD has discretion around what activities it is reasonable to require a client to do, as
well as what re-compliance activity to impose if they have an obligations failure.

Impact of COVID-19 on the Ministry of Social Development's operating model 4
