34 The exception is 52-week reapplications, which will effectively be temporarily extended
to 104-week reapplications in the IT system, as this is the only feasible way to
implement this proposal in the short timeframes.

Tranche Three: Options that have been flagged but require further

analysis

35 We have also flagged some other options that could reduce demand or face-to-face
engagement, but that require more work. This includes:

35.1 further changes to streamline the application, verification and payment of hardship

grants

35.2 removing the need for people applying for JS-HCD or the Supported Living

Payment to provide a medical certificate from a health practitioner, for example by
using alternative evidence or granting the Emergency Benefit at the same rate
instead.

36 There is potential to significantly benefit clients, for example, automating food grants
would make the process easier and quicker for clients. However, we need to work
through the details of how this could be implemented as well as the long-term
implications.

These proposals are greater in scale than responses to previous

adverse events...

37 While some of these options have been used in previous events (such as the
Christchurch earthquakes), generally this has been a localised response. Progressing this
in the context of COVID-19 would require changes to our service provision across the
entire country in a constantly changing environment. We will need to implement the
preferred options at pace, and they will require:

37.1 IT system changes

37.2 staffing and processing changes

37.3 new guidelines and communications for staff, clients and others in the community

(such as Primary Health Organisations)

37.4 (for some) policy and secondary legislative change through Cabinet processes.
«and if a domestic epidemic management notice is issued we could
have significantly more discretion
38 In addition, MSD has become involved in work with the Ministry of Health and Crown Law

that will seek the Prime Minister's agreement to issue a domestic epidemic management

notice. This would enable MSD to:

38.1 pay Emergency Benefits to people who are not usually eligible (such as people on

temporary visas who are unable to return to their home country);

38.2 further streamline aspects of the benefit application process; and

38.3 make a range of regulations that would provide MSD with the ability to deliver

services in new ways and free up key frontline resource within MSD.

39 We expect a briefing to Ministers will be prepared over the weekend with Cabinet
decisions sought on Monday 23 March 2020. If a notice is issued MSD will:

39.1 undertake immediate work on operational policy to support the implementation of

the new Emergency Benefit powers before seeking your approval to enable them;

39.2 identify where the streamlined application provision and regulation making powers

can be used to complement the proposals in this report by further reducing face-
to-face interaction with clients within existing settings.
Impact of COVID-19 on the Ministry of Social Development's operating model 6
