Tranche 1
(to be implemented by Friday 27 March 2020, for an initial period of six months)
Initiative Description Volume of Authorising Client impact Implications BORE impact How much
engagement environment (IT/operational/risk) operational
capacity would it
free up
Clear any special benefit Extend out the period for SPB ~1600 clients MSD has discretion to Positive impact as Could keep paying Estimated to be low Minimal
(SPB) expiries or expiries currently receive extend out expiry clients will not need clients who are no
reviews SPB, which is periods for SPB. to go through SPB longer eligible or are
reviewed at 26- reapplication not meeting
week intervals for process. requirements.
most clients.
Annual reviews for Extend out the due date for Not yet estimated MSD has broad Less disruption as Could keep paying Not costed Moderate impact:
social housing (Income annual review of social housing discretion to review “at — client would not have — clients who are no Across all
related rent reviews) eligibility any time”. There is no to pay more rent or longer eligible, less assistance reviews
prescribed frequency of _ potentially find new likely to free up social and expiry-related
review in primary accommodation. housing spaces. initiatives, can free
legislation up 4.5 FTE for
contact centre and
Ministerial direction on 38 FTE for |
Continued Eligibility for centralised services
Social Housing deals
with eligibility, not
frequency of review
periods.
Obligations
Cease face-to-face Cease the following types of Not yet estimated, — jysp has discretion In general, this is This will mean that MSD Yes, but unknown Significant impact
proactive engagement = engagement: at least 50,000 around what activities it likely to reduce will be unlikely to as this is expected
in relation to — providing direct employment clients. is reasonable to require anxiety for clients require clients to to free up a large
employment and support to clients looking for a Client to do, as well as about obligations or complete work-related number of case
hardship assistance a what re-compliance debt-related activities as part of their managers to focus
7 - ah fy activity to impose if compliance; but obligations to take steps on other types of
— requiring clients with high they have an obligations Could also reduce the to find suitable assistance.
numbers of hardship grants failure. likelihood of them employment, as this
to attend a face-to-face finding or returning would not be reasonable
ee ene MSD can make re- to work. in most circumstances.
compliance activities There is a risk around
— managing debt collection for minimal (eg, phone MSD not proactively
current and former clients. calls). This must encouraging clients to
Defer any new obligations generally be done on a apply for new jobs even
failures and introduce minimal case-by-case a if demand there is
re-compliance activities, such as assessment, but this is demand for new
phone calls, for clients with an likely a low legal risk. employees.
existing obligations failure.
