Tranche 2
(further work required to be implemented, likely for an initial period of six months)
Initiative Description Volume of Authorising Client impact Implications BORE impact How much
engagement environment (IT/operational/risk) operational
capacity would it
free up
Medical certificates/health system interactions
Extending out the Extend out the due date for ~2,000 Change in MSD has discretion to CDA is paid at a fixed Low Minimal: Across all
review period for Child upcoming reviews of medical Circumstances delay any reviews. rate so the impact is assistance reviews
Disability Allowance eligibility for CDA. letters sent for CDA likely to be minimal. $1m for 6 months and expiry-related
(CDA) per month initiatives, can free
Current practice is to review the Eligibility will up 4.5 FTE for
child’s disability every 2-5 years. ~2,000 medical continue to cease for contact centre and
review forms for clients whose child 38 FTE for
CDA sent per month turns 18 years or is centralised services
granted a main
~4,000 total per benefit.
month
~48,000 per annum
Defer review of health Defer due dates for clients to ~2,000 medical MSD has discretion to Minimal, most clients Could keep paying Not costed Minimal: Across all
conditions for provide a medical certificate of certificates delay any reviews. who cease receiving clients who are no assistance reviews
Supported Living their continued eligibility. Processed per SLP do so because of longer eligible, Likely minimal as exit and expiry-related
Payment (SLP) clients month outside of death or moving onto particularly for SLP rates are low initiatives, can free
Currently approximately two- SLP grants New Zealand Carers. up 4.5 FTE for
thirds of clients are required to Superannuation. contact centre and
provide a medical certificate is ~24,000 per 38 FTE for |
every two years. annum centralised services
Other reviews and expiries
Defer Emergency Push out expiry dates for EB for 150 expiries for EB © MSD has discretion to Most clients will High risk in relation to Low Minimal: Across all
Benefit (EB) expiries an initial period of six months, due in April 2020 extend out expiry continue to receive whether clients continue assistance reviews
for clients with specified reason periods for EB. their benefit without to be eligible (eg, where $1 2m for 6 months 2d expiry-related
codes. needing to provide EB has been granted to initiatives, can free
any additional clients only for self- up 4.5 FTE for
verification. isolation period; EB contact centre and
granted to clients who 38 FTE for
need to confirm centralised services
residency)
Will need system
changes to create
multiple reason codes
for EB. Also requires
guidelines for staff to
help decision-making.
Temporarily remove the Extend the period that TAS is ~70,000 on TAS at’ Regulation amendment Positive impact as Could keep paying High Moderate: changes
need for Temporary granted to clients for, Currently the end of Feb, will required - requirement _ clients will not need clients who are no to TAS and 52-week
Additional Support clients have to re-apply for TAS require to reapply for TAS is set to go through longer eligible or are $20m if no re- reapplication
(TAS) reapplications every 13 weeks. reapplication within — in primary legislation, onerous reapplication not meeting the applications are periods can free up
in the next 13 but time period is set process. requirements (eg, required for an initial 13.5 FTE for contact
We will provide you with further Weeks out in regulations. reducing costs or period of six months, Centres and 4 FTE
advice on how to legislative for increasing income). rising to $60m if this for centralised
this, as we will need to ensure a) change continues for Services. This does
that any changes give us a further six months ot estimate the
significant flexibility. impact on service
centre staff.
