Appendix One: Proposed changes to MSD’s operating model
Tranche 1
(to be implemented by Friday 27 March 2020, for an initial period of six months)
Initiative Description Volume of Authorising Client impact Implications BORE impact How much
engagement environment (IT/operational/risk) operational
capacity would it
free up
Medical certificates/health system interactions
Temporarily remove the Current practice is to require a ~30,000 work Cabinet agreed to the Costs related to This will create a lot of Medium Moderate impact:
need to provide medical certificate four weeks capacity medical fixed interval getting medical additional capacity for For all medical
subsequent work after the initial certificate, certificates received requirement for JS-HCD certificates will go GPs Estimated at $20m certificate-related
capacity medical another certificate four weeks outside of benefit in 2010 [CAB Min down for clients. for 6 months. initiatives - likely to
certificates for clients after that, and at 13-week grants for JS-HCD (10)7/10] When client’s Will require high level free up 16.5 FTE
receiving Jobseeker intervals thereafter. and Sole Parent capacity to work communications to across centralised
Support on the grounds Support clients per — Cabinet decision worsens clients could clients, primary health services and contact
of a health condition, month required to amend time potentially miss out _—_ organisations and staff. centres.
injury oa (Js- periods. on transitioning to
HCD) and Sole Parent ws ;
) i 360,000 per SLP. MSD will also need to
Support clients with a annum .
health condition-related generate a manual list
deferral of work of clients who are on
obligations suspended or expired
benefit in order to
resume their benefit
payment.
Defer any upcoming Currently two-part review: ~26,000 letters Need to amend Clients could be Could keep paying Low Significant impact:
Disability Allowance medical eligibility and costs. sent per month for ‘Ministerial direction to either over or clients who are no across all assistance
reviews DA reviews to reduce verification underpaid, and would longer eligible $2m for 6 months reviews and expiry-
This would defer any upcoming working-age and requirements not need to go related initiatives,
reviews for 6 months. People seniors clients through an onerous can free up 4.5 FTE
can still notify changes in costs process of verifying for contact centre
and we will only require minimal ~310,000 per their costs or and 38 FTE for ;
verification. annum obtaining a medical centralised services
certificate
Other reviews and expiries
Delay annual reviews of Covers all annual reviews, ~100,000 annual MSD has discretion to Clients who would Could keep paying Not costed Significant impact:
client circumstances including review of income and review-related delay any annual have been due clients who are no across all assistance
life certificates. letters sent to reviews. arrears in their due longer eligible. reviews and expiry-
working-age and paid assessment will related initiatives,
seniors clients per For due paid not get this as , | can free up 4.5 FTE
month (inclusive of assessments, still have Wickly. Will require — for contact centre
letters for DA) to complete review but communications and 38 FTE for
there is no specific time explaining new centralised services
~1.175 million per period requirement set processes to bow
annum out in legislation. .
This does not remove
client's obligations to
notify MSD of changes
in circumstances or our
responsibility to act on
any new information.
