IN CONFIDENCE

15 However, allowing butchers to open for retail would increase the number of
retail stores open, increasing the risk of Covid-19 transmission. While strict
guidelines on operating conditions to mitigate health risks could be put in
place this risk may still be considered unacceptable. Allowing butchers to only
open for processing purposes would limit health risks.

16 The amount of pigs that could be processed under a processing only scenario
will depend heavily on storage capacity for processed meat and the ability to
access markets to generate the turnover needed to keep purchasing pigs.
Some products produced by butchers may be able to be channelled through
supermarkets where there are existing supply arrangements, although the
volume for traditional cuts is likely to be limited as supermarkets are
constrained by cool storage and shelf space rather than processing capacity.
Specialised products such as charcuterie and consumer ready products may
find more ready access to supermarkets. There may also be avenues for
additional product through food delivery services that are increasing in
popularity under the current travel restrictions.

17 Although there may be some channels to market under this option, the
amount of product that butchers will be able to sell is likely to be limited. With
little available storage space and an uncertain lockdown duration, butchers
are unlikely to be willing to purchase enough pigs to meaningfully address the
animal welfare issue. If butchers do not purchase the pigs, they will not be
processed by the abattoirs and the problem of oversupply will revert to the
farmer to resolve (see Appendix 1).

18 Officials have also explored the following options for dealing with the excess
supply of pigs:

18.1 Reducing the flow of pigs to slaughter age. This is not achievable in the
short term and it would take up to 9 months to achieve a big enough
reduction in supply

18.2 Keeping pigs on farms. This not possible due to the industry structure,
lack of space on farms and animal welfare concerns.

18.3 Export product. The pork industry is domestically focused with limited
export to the Pacific Islands only. Getting new market assess
arrangements takes considerable time and will be particularly difficult
with the dynamics in the pork industry.

18.5 Freezing the excess. Pigs are difficult to freeze and access to
appropriate freezing space is limited.

3
IN CONFIDENCE
ewpf2nuke 2020-04-20 15:45:38
