IN CONFIDENCE
in New Zealand, including the Federation of Islamic Associations of New
Zealand (FIANZ), which plays a key role in certifying halal practices. They
have advised that there is a range of comfort levels in the Muslim community
in New Zealand on where halal food is bought from, and that some
supermarkets do stock halal goods. However, the feedback received is that
many in the community would not be comfortable buying from supermarkets.
The supermarkets have also indicated that they would not be able to manage
the required volume of goods.

25. FIANZ indicated that there is significant concern in the community regarding
sourcing halal red meat, and that they were planning to engage in writing with
the Government shortly on this issue. They intend to request that halal
butchers should be considered an essential service. They noted that halal
butchers cater for the devout Muslims who do not wish to risk cross
contamination with other products in supermarkets such as alcohol and pork
and pork products.

26 Allowing halal butchers to open for processing and retail on a limited basis
would enable Muslim communities to continue to access meat products. If
retail was not permitted, better information could be provided to the Muslim
community on halal distribution through supermarkets to support halal
butchers, although this option may not meet the expectations of Muslims who
follow strict halal practices.

Conditions of opening

27 If butchers are permitted to open for both processing and retail, we propose
that strict conditions be placed on opening to ensure that the key public health
interest is served by limiting physical interaction. In line with other essential
retail operations, this would mean contactless home delivery where possible
or contactless collection.

28 There is a risk that if full opening, albeit with strict conditions, is permitted,
further retail outlets, such as green-grocers, may seek to be included as
essential services. We will make clear in public messaging that the aim
remains to minimise retail outlets being open in order to minimise risk to
public health. However, the decision in relation to butchers was made to
address specific concerns in relation to animal welfare and access to halal
products.

Financial Implications

29. There are no financial implications from the recommendations in this paper.

Legislative Implications

30 There are no legislative implications from the recommendations in this paper.

5
IN CONFIDENCE
ewpf2nuke 2020-04-20 15:45:38
