IN CONFIDENCE

18.6 The halal rules that the rest of the meat industry operates under further
reduces freezing capacity as pork cannot be stored with other meat
types such as beef and lamb.

18.7 Rendering is also not an option because of halal rules.

18.8 Ultimately, if the excess of supply exceeds the industry’s ability to
manage, the Ministry for Primary Industries would need to implement
measures, such as those under the Foot and Mouth Disease plan, for
the mass destruction and disposal of animals.

19 Not slaughtering the pigs will, as set out above, lead to significant animal
welfare concerns which the pork industry tell us cannot be mitigated on farm.
Keeping the market demand on stream for pork will help ensure that this worst
case scenario does not happen.

20 The choice that we have is whether we are comfortable with the possibility of
poor animal outcomes if the abattoirs reduce capacity in the face of reduced
demand and/or the disposal of a significant number of pigs in the coming
weeks. The numbers of carcasses could mount quickly and there could be
consequential environmental issues.

21 Opening butchers for both processing and retail would help mitigate the
animal welfare problems but does create public health concerns. The
Ministry for Primary Industries’ view is that opening of all butchers in this way
— under strict non-contact conditions — would go a long way towards
addressing the animal welfare risk. The option of allowing butchers to process
only would provide some relief but is unlikely to fully resolve the issue. A
further alternative is to keep the butchers closed and monitor the numbers for
the first weeks of the lockdown and reassess if the number of carcasses that
require disposal becomes unacceptably high.

| |

Halal considerations

23 Even though all meat is slaughtered in New Zealand to halal standards,
supermarket processing practice means that it is not possible for them to
process halal product themselves. There are approximately 60 halal butchers
in New Zealand — 10-15 in Auckland, and 1-2 in most other centres.

24 Officials have investigated whether it is possible for halal butchers to supply
pre-packaged halal product for supermarkets to retail. Officials have
discussed acceptable practice with representatives of the Muslim community

4
IN CONFIDENCE
Tewpf2nuke 2020-04-20 15:45:38
