IN CONFIDENCE
there are animal welfare issues concerning pigs that we need to factor in to
making this decision.

8 Intensive pig production involves growing large numbers of pigs quickly in
relatively confined facilities. Farms do not have capacity to continue to house
pigs that grow quickly at a daily rate. Overcrowding of pigs in pens would
quickly constitute a significant welfare issue under the animal welfare code.

9 Pigs are also difficult to slaughter the heavier they get. This means that very
quickly there would be no ability to house pigs or potentially put them through
the usual abattoir process and potentially could lead to the need to kill large
numbers of pigs on farm (see Appendix 1).

10 Between 12,000 and 12,500 pigs are produced weekly for the domestic
market. There is no capacity to hold surplus pigs on farm. Commercial farms
typically supply pigs to market on a weekly basis and do not carry spare
holding capacity. Pigs grow rapidly and the specialist meat works that
slaughter pigs are designed to operate at a certain weight.

44 Wholesalers typically sell a mix of carcass and carton (cut) product.
Wholesalers do not have cutting capacity to process and freeze the volumes
surplus to demand. Cutting capacity of wholesalers could result in
downstream animal welfare issues if the carcass market is significantly
reduced.

12 About half of the pork domestic sales are to the two main supermarket
groups. Estimates are that with the closure of other retail and hospitality
avenues, there will be a surplus of 4000-5000 pigs a week to slaughter.

43 The supermarkets have indicated that they may be able to handle an
additional pigs a week.

14 Allowing butchers to open to process and sell product would significantly
mitigate the excess. There are approximately 350 independent retail butchers
and while it is difficult to predict consumer reaction should these premises be
allowed to reopen, retail butchers took 2000 pigs a week in 2019. Having
butchers process this meat would significantly reduce the oversupply. Under
a best case scenario, where supermarkets are able to maintain an increase of
ilies with the butchers also open for processing and retail, this would
solve the oversupply problem. If this assumption does not hold, the worst
case scenario would be an oversupply of INMipigs.

1 Any such decision to procure domestic pigs to support the response is a decision for industry in the

first instance, rather than something that can be mandated by government.

2
IN CONFIDENCE
Tewpf2nuke 2020-04-20 15:45:38
