4N-CONFIDENGCE-

8. Control of the required response effort is managed at the national level (rather than at
a regional or local level), in support of the regional and local response. This means that
our response to COVID-19 can be effectively coordinated.

9. The powers available under the CDEM Act are complementary to the powers available
under the Health Act.

Advice on extending the State of National Emergency this week

10. The State of National Emergency expires on Wednesday 8 April at 12.21pm. |
recommend an extension to ensure ongoing delivery of the Government approach to
managing COVID-19. The continuing and serious nature of the impact of COVID-19 in
New Zealand indicates an ongoing need for a State of National Emergency.

11. An extension to a State of National Emergency should only be made if the situation
remains an emergency and the emergency is, or is likely to be, of such extent,
magnitude, or severity that the civil defence emergency management necessary or
desirable in respect of it is, or is likely to be, beyond the resources of CDEM Groups
whose areas are affected by the emergency.

12. Each week, officials consider a wide range of factors when formulating advice on
whether it is necessary to extend the State of National Emergency. These are:

a) whether the statutory tests have been met;

b) the severity and impact/consequences of the current situation/emergency;

c) the degree of complexity of the necessary response (including the need for
coordination at the national level);

d) the potential need for powers under the CDEM Act to manage the response; and

e) the effectiveness of measures in place to manage and eliminate COVID-19.

13. 9(2)(h)

14. As Director CDEM, | consider extending the State of National Emergency is an
appropriate action to take in response to COVID-19. It will enable us to respond as
necessary as the situation develops, and ensure we have full access to the resources
available to preserve human health, society and the economy. | therefore recommend
you agree to extend the State of National Emergency by signing the form attached at
Appendix One.

15. Once you have signed the extension form, the next steps are to:

a) Ask your Office to forward a photo of the declaration and the cover memo (attached
at Appendix Two) to the Bills Office so that the House can be immediately informed
of the extension;

b) Release a media statement informing the public of the extension (attached at
Appendix Three); and

DPMC: 4245117, Page 4 of 12
IN GONFIBENCE-
