IN-CONFIBDENCE

APPENDIX THREE

Draft Media Statement regarding the extension of a State of National
Emergency due to COVID-19

DATE
Civil Defence

Minister of Civil Defence Peeni Henare, today declared that the State of National Emergency will be
extended a second time, for a further seven days in response to COVID-19.
“Last week, | declared an extension and today | have declared a further seven day extension as we
continue to manage the spread of COVID-19. This is an extension to the State of National Emergency only
and does not change the Alert Level 4 lockdown.” Mr Henare said.
“The State of National Emergency was first declared on the 25" of March. A State of National Emergency
lasts for only 7 days, unless extended or terminated earlier.”
“On the advice of the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management and after consultation with the
Prime Minister, | consider the continued response required to combat COVID-19 is of such a degree that it
remains beyond the capacity of local Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups to respond to on their
own. | will be constantly reviewing the situation as to whether further extensions of the State of National
Emergency are required and if the powers under this function are necessary. For now, they are.”
“The State of National Emergency and the COVID-19 Alert Levels are two distinct and separate things. The
Alert Levels specify the range of measures that we are taking against COVID-19. A State of National
Emergency provides the people managing the response in an emergency, in this case COVID-19, access to
powers they would not normally have, but might require now to implement and enforce these
measures”, Mr Henare notes.
The Alert Levels can be applied without a State of National Emergency, and a State of National Emergency
can be declared without Alert Levels being used. However, the powers made available by the State of
National Emergency support and help us enforce the measures being applied and are complimentary to
the powers available under the Health Act.
The powers activated by the State of National Emergency enable civil defence emergency management
professionals to carry out critical work during this time including managing roads, traffic and public
places; providing first aid, food, shelter and accommodation. Use of these powers have included the
requisitioning of a carpark so it can be used as a community-based assessment centre, and to support NZ
Police to prevent people from doing non-essential activities.
“As we enter our third week under a State of National Emergency and at Alert Level 4, | would like to
thank all New Zealanders who have continued to work tirelessly to support the response to COVID-19 and
to support their whanau, friends, neighbours and community through these incredibly challenging times.”
To eliminate the virus and save lives, we must do all we can to fight as hard as we can against this invisible
and destructive danger. The current measures in place are the best things we can do to break the chain of
transmission and safeguard our families, our health system and our way of life.
As | mentioned last week, “Now is the time for us to remain at home and be strong together as a nation -
kia kaha Aotearoa.”

SECOND EXTENSION OF THE STATE OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY Report No. 20/35

DPMC: 4245117 Page 8 of 12

TNEONFIDENCE-
