TN EGNFIBENCE
Purpose

1. This briefing provides advice on extending the duration of the State of National
Emergency in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on New Zealand. The
State of National Emergency expires on Wednesday 8 April at 12.21pm and must be
extended before this time if it is to remain in place for a further 7 days.

Overall situation: State of National Emergency for COVID-19

2. On Wednesday 1 April 2020, you extended the State of National Emergency over the
whole of New Zealand to Wednesday 8 April 2020 at 12.21pm. Since then, cases of
COVID-19 have continued to rise in New Zealand, with 1,039 combined confirmed and
probable cases as at 0900 hours on 5 April 2020, and evidence of community
transmission.

3. On 29 March 2020, | directed all CDEM Groups to activate their CDEM arrangements
to support of the response to COVID-19. Since the State of National Emergency was
first declared, CDEM Groups have used CDEM Act powers to direct non-essential
businesses to close, direct freedom campers to relocate, requisition a carpark for
COVID-19 testing, and close some roads. A table summarising the use of powers by
CDEM Groups is attached at Appendix Four for information. This is for illustrative
purposes; it does not reflect powers used by the Director, Police constables or others.

4. For further information on powers available under the CDEM Act by a declaration of a
State of National Emergency and the overall process to extend a State of National
Emergency please refer to Briefing 20/32.

Interplay between the State of National Emergency and Alert Level Four

5. The State of National Emergency and COVID-19 alert levels are two distinct things.
The alert levels specify the range of measures that the government is taking against
COVID-19, and are informed by public health advice from the Ministry of Health. A State
of National Emergency provides the people managing the response in an emergency,
in this case COVID-19, access to powers they would not normally have, but may require
to implement and enforce these measures.

6. The alert levels can be set without a State of National Emergency, and a State of
National Emergency can be declared or extended without specific, or any, alert levels
being in place.

7. The powers made available by the State of National Emergency support the
government to enforce the measures being applied at higher alert levels. A State of
National Emergency ensures CDEM staff can carry out critical work during this time,
including managing roads, traffic and public places; and providing first aid, food, shelter
and accommodation.

DPMC: 4245117, Page 3 of 12
4IN-CONFIDENCE-
