| Statute and sections | Proposed modification | Reason for modification
t

10. Alternative options to address requirements or restrictions in the provisions were
considered in determining what modification was appropriate. This included exploring, non-
legislative options, the use of existing powers in existing legislation and whether changes
could be made by other legislative methods. We have ensured the modificationsgono
further than is reasonably necessary by proposing that each proposed modi cation only
remove or amend the problematic requirement or restriction in the provision tothe extent
necessary. Each modification will remain in place until the COVID-19 epidemc notice ends,
with the exception of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act as outlined above?

s9(2)(f)(iv)

| am satisfied that the proposed modifications meet the s 15 test

12. In line with the requirements in s 15(2)(a)(i), and subject to assessment by the Crown Law
Office, | (as Secretary for Justice) am, of the opinion that the requirements and restrictions
identified by the Ministry are impossible,or impracticable to comply with while the epidemic
notice and associated measures impacting on public life are in place. | am also of the
opinion that the modifications proposed go no further than is, or is likely to be, reasonably
necessary in the circumstahees\as required by s 15(2)(a)(ii).

Assessment by Crown Law Office and consultation with key stakeholders

13. The proposed modifications are subject to assessment by Crown Law Office to confirm that
they meetthe f stn s 15 of the Epidemic Preparedness Act. Full templates of the proposed
modifications are attached to this briefing (Attachments 2 — 5).

14. Crown Law Office was sent the proposed modifications to review on 3 ~

15. The judiciary and relevant government agencies were consulted on the proposed
modifications and the draft Cabinet paper, albeit with a short period of time to comment.
The judiciary and relevant government agencies are supportive of the proposed
modifications and the Cabinet paper. We have also consulted with the New Zealand Law
Society and the Alcohol Licensing and Regulatory Authority on the proposals relevant to
them. No significant issues were raised during that consultation.

7
