3: The modification of a requirement or restriction may be absolute or subject to conditions
and may be made by stating an alternative means of complying or by substituting a
discretionary power for the requirement or restriction.

6. Unlike the epidemic management notices under section 8 of the EPA, there is no built-in
revocation mechanism. Each modification therefore needs to address both when any
change will apply and when it will cease to apply.

Seven proposals have been identified to include in Immediate Modification Orders

Te The Ministry of Justice is responsible for administering approximately 150 pieces, of;
legislation. Following the issuing of the epidemic notice, the Ministry developed’a process
for rapid identification and assessment of provisions in its legislation that’May require
modification under s 15 EPA. Some of the provisions identified were brought 'o our
attention by the judiciary and legal profession.

8. The Ministry has initially identified seven requirements ahd restricti§ns EIQ)

HE (1 2t are impossible or impracticable to comply with under the range of measures
imposed under the COVID-19 Alert System. Based on/ouPinitial scan, modifications to
these requirements and restrictions have been, d@\medhigh priority either due to their
impact on courts or justice services, public protection harm minimisation or access to
justice. There may be further modifications needed in future and we will keep you updated
as identification and assessment work continues.

Overview of proposed modifications

9. The following sections in legislation. have been identified as requiring modification by
Immediate ModificationOrder:

| Statute and sections || Proposed modification | Reason for modification
1 | Oaths and: Modify the law so that there | Sections 3 and 4 require oaths and
Declara ions Act is no requirement for a affirmations to be made before (i.e. in
1957. ss 3084 person taking an oath or the physical presence of) the person
affirmation under the Oaths | taking the oath or affirmation. This is
and Declarations Act 1957 | impossible to comply with during the
Sections 3 and 4 require | to be physically present restrictions imposed at COVID-19 alert
oXths and affirmations to | with the person making the | level 4. Restrictions at lower levels may
be made before (i.e. in the | oath or affirmation or to be impracticable to comply with for
physical presence of) the | physically sign the same vulnerable people (e.g. those with
person taking the oath or | document while epidemic- | underlying health conditions or over 70
affirmation. related restrictions are in years old).
place.
2
