jenna [ronnie faa
3 | Oaths and Modify the law so there is Sections 11 and 12 imply a physical
Declarations Act no requirement for a person | presence where a declaration, oath or
1957, ss 11 &12 taking an oath, affirmation affidavit is being witnessed. -
or declaration under the
Oaths and Declarations Act .
Section 11 prescribes 1957 to be physically Requirements inss 11 and 12 are
requirements for a present with the person therefore impossible to comply.with
declaration made outside | making the oath, affirmation during the restrictions imposed at
of New Zealand, in or declaration or to COVID-19 alert level 4. Restrictions: at
particular that the physically sign the same lower levels may be impracticable to 4
declaration be “made document while restrictions | CO™Ply with for vulnerable people (e.g,
before” a specified on movement and face-to- those with underlying health conditions
person. face interactions to manage or over 70 years old).
the effects of COVID-19,
Section 12 provides that such as those " New
specified servicemen Zealand, are in place in the
outside of New Zealand country concemed.
may administer an oath or
affidavit “sworn before The deponent should
him’. provide an explanation
the relevant restrictions in,
place in the country
concerned. A recipient
entity can rely on that
explanation,in the absence
of reliable information about
any res‘tictions that applied
in the rlévan country at
the time it Was attested to.
Protection of Modify s 94A PPPR Act Section 94A of the PPPR Act and
Personal and and the PPPR Regulations | various places on the notes to the EPOA
Property Rights, Act so that there is no forms and on the forms themselves in
1988 (‘PPPR/Act Jas requirement for an EPOA to | the PPPR Regulations requires the
944 be witnessed/signed in the | EPOA to be witnessed/signed “in the
physical presence of presence” of someone else.
someone or to physically
Rgqui es the Enduring sign the same document Th . Ct . ibl
Power oftAttorney while epidemic-related ese requirements are impossible to
(EPOA’) to be restrictions are in place. comply with during the restrictions
Witnessed/signed “in the imposed at COVID-19 alert level 4.
présence” of someone Restrictions at lower levels may be
else (interpreted to mean Replace with a new — impracticable to comply with for
the physical presence) requirement that signing vulnerable people (e.g. those with
. and witnessing should take | underlying health conditions or over 70
place by AVL (using remote | years old).
Associated references in | participation technology
the Protection of Personal | with an audio and visual
and Property Rights link) with a donor,
(Enduring Powers of authorised witness and
Attorney Forms and attorney(s) having a copy of
4
