Ore ee
Prescribed Information) the document before them.
Regulations 2008 (PPPR_ | Other core requirements for
Regulations) will also EPOA remain the same.
require modification.
Require that, where an
EPOA is signed remotely, a
record be kept of the
reasons the document was
signed remotely
and that, as soon as a
donor, witness, and
attorney are able to safely -
given the relevant alert
level - they would need to
sign the same document.
5 | Wills Act 2007, s 11 Remove the requirement Requiring people who are making,
for witnesses to be changing, revoking or reviving their wills
. . physically present withythe’ ) | to.sign the will “in the presence of two
Requires people making, person or to physica‘y sig witnesses’ is impossible to comply with
changing or revoking or —_| the same document. during the restrictions imposed at
reviving their wills to COVID-19 alert level 4. Restrictions at
follow the witnessing , lower levels may be impracticable to
process in s 11 “in the Replace veh AY comply with for vulnerable people (e.g.
presence of two . requirementthat sig. ing those with underlying health conditions
witnesses” (including and witnessing’shoul) take | 9, over 70 years old).
option of will-maker place by AVLi(using remote
directing another person _ | participation*technology
to sign the document on With,an, audio and visual Allowing signing and witnessing to occur
their behalf in the will- ink) with both the will- by AVL provides a practical solution to
maker’s presence and.in maber and witnesses ensure wills can continue to be made,
the presence of the two Raving a copy of the changed and revoked during this high
witnesses); and for. document before them. alert level.
witnesses to sin th Other core requirements in
document Anthefwill the Wills Act remain the Retaining other core requirements will
maker's presence ™ same. |
ensure protections for vulnerable people
continue and will provide safeguards
Witnesses should include a | against fraud and misuse by coercion.
statement that they have
witnessed the will-maker
signing the will and have
themselves signed a copy
of the same document by
AVL because of the
Epidemic Notice being in
force.
Scans or photos of the
copies should be taken as
soon as possible after
5
