Page 3 of 14
may increase. As employment opportunities dry up, the intentions of New Zealand residents
in other countries may change throughout the remainder of 2020. Commercial airline options
continue to shrink (there are presently 29 direct flights a week to New Zealand, compared to
751 at the same time last year), which may also increase the possible reliance on repatriations.
For a growing number, government-supported repatriation or sheltering in place will be the
only option currently available to them. MFAT has provided consular staff with broader
discretion to enable New Zealanders in distress to access financial assistance, notably loans
to support the purchase of air tickets where their financial resources are exhausted.
10 On each occasion that New Zealand has undertaken its own repatriation flight, the
assessment has been approved by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These repatriations have
proven an effective way to meet our consular obligations in circumstances where there is no
other option, the situation on the ground is challenging, and there is a critical mass of people.
However, such flights are also expensive, logistically complex and resource intensive.
The framework for repatriation — prioritisation and methodology
11. On21 March 2020, the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed five criteria to inform decisions
regarding government-assisted repatriation flights to return stranded New Zealanders:
- For individuals who are fit for travel according to advice from health authorities;
- No commercial flight options to New Zealand are available;
- It is unsafe to shelter in place;
- 5 Nations partners are evacuating their citizens; and
- The New Zealand health system is not overwhelmed.
12 MFAT has developed a framework for implementing these criteria. This framework:

e Elaborates on the factors to be considered when applying these criteria, including the
potential COVID-19 exposure risk to staff and the wider New Zealand population that
repatriation flights pose;

e Evaluates air transport options for repatriation, including various ways of leveraging or
sharing charters with priority partners (see below); and

e Incorporates a risk assessment matrix, which divides all countries where
New Zealanders are known to be travelling or resident into red (high risk), amber or
green (see attached Annexes).
