Page 2 of 14
25 per country, S6(a)
4 s9(2)(g)(i), s9(2)(f) (iv)

There may be a range of options to work
through for how New Zealanders could be repatriated, including working jointly with our
partners. s9(2)(g)(i), s9(2)(g) (ii)

I

5 This risk assessment matrix helps us to focus our repatriation efforts, but it is not intended
to be exclusive or inflexible!s9(2)(g)(i), s9(2)(f) (iv), s9(2)G)

6 The cost of these repatriation charters to Vote Foreign Affairs is estimated to be $10-$14
million once the immediate COVID-19 emergency has passed, depending on the number of
flights, passengers and success of the recovery model being used.

Introduction

7 On 14 March 2020, the Government advised New Zealanders to avoid non-essential
travel, and on 19 March issued a “do not travel” advisory for all countries. New Zealanders
overseas who cannot return home for the time being are currently advised by MFAT to take
steps to stay shelter in place where they are, and that assisted departure flights should not be
relied upon to get home. More specifically, on 9 April New Zealanders in Europe registered
on Safe Travel who wished to return home were advised to book commercial flights as soon
as possible and were told that assisted departure flights could not be relied upon. s9(2)(f)(iv),
8 77,433 New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have heeded this advice and
travelled home since 14 March, nearly all on commercial air routes. To date, MFAT has
assisted a further 530 New Zealanders to return home, through consular assistance ranging
from organising a full charter to essential logistical support to access commercial flights. A
number have received loans to cover the costs of those flights, which are also available to pay
for commercial flights.

9 It is estimated there are still several hundred thousand New Zealanders overseas. Most
of them are not registered on New Zealand consular databases, and it is impossible to know
exactly how many wish to return home or will look to the Government for repatriation
assistance. Available data provides only a rough guide in this regard, but officials estimate the
demand for repatriation assistance could be between one and several thousand. The numbers
