Page 6 of 14
19 Once these repatriations have been completed, the total net cost to MFAT’s budget is
estimated at $2,264,200. Where MFAT has helped to subsidise the flight, the average per
passenger repatriation subsidy is approximately $12,500.
20 = Each repatriation has also been resource intensive. Complexity has been added by the
need to negotiate transit agreements, health and airport protocols with local authorities, to
ensure that proper medical screening takes place prior to boarding, and to offer seats where
possible to foreign nationals. There are corresponding limits on how many repatriation
exercises MFAT can run at any one time.
The Government cannot repatriate all New Zealanders who wish to return home and we
need to message this clearly
21 The Government cannot offer repatriation to all New Zealanders who wish to return home
from wherever they may bels9(2)(g)(i) Nor is it possible to know exactly how many
New Zealanders will seek repatriation, though available data may provide some guidance.
Thus, 23,860 are registered on Safe Travel as being overseas, of whom 18,028 describe
themselves as resident and 5,832 as travellers. Of these registrants, 3,326 are located in high-
risk countries, 7,623 in moderate-risk countries and 11,850 in low-risk countries. The actual
number of New Zealanders overseas in countries such as Australia and the UK is much higher,
and may be in other countries too. In terms of the scale of possible demand for repatriation
from this overseas population, additional consular data may provide some indication. Up to
868 New Zealanders currently identify themselves as “stranded travellers” (i.e. want to leave
the country they are in) and 562 have recently required consular assistance due to COVID-19-
related travel restrictions. There is a small overlap between these two groups - around 86 are
in both groups — but equally, the number of those wanting to return home may be greater than
those who have communicated this to MFAT. As conditions worsen overseas, more of those
who classify themselves as resident may wish to return home. Taking all of this data together,
it is possible that between one and several thousand New Zealanders may seek repatriation
assistance.
22
23 ~=iIt is therefore essential to decide now from which countries we choose not to offer
repatriation, and communicate this clearly as soon as possible. This will give stranded
New Zealanders as much time as possible to explore other travel options or to make better
