Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs

COVID-19 - Targeting Support for the Repatriation of New Zealanders
Purpose

To seek agreement to the prioritisation and delivery of consular repatriation efforts for
New Zealanders stranded offshore due to COVID-19, and to confirm the category of countries
from which the Government will and will not offer repatriation flights.

Summary

During the COVID-19 crisis, the New Zealand Government has so far successfully organised
or facilitated chartered repatriation flights for New Zealanders from China (Wuhan), Japan,
Vanuatu, Peru and Uruguay. Through our consular network, we have also supported
individuals’ return to New Zealand from across the globe. Given resource constraints and
differing conditions offshore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) has developed
a risk assessment framework which implements criteria for government-assisted repatriation
flights. However, while we are working closely with Five Nations consular partners and other
countries to burden share, repatriations are expensive and resource-intensive.

2 The demand for repatriation will likely continue for some time. Despite clear Government
advice over the last several weeks not to travel from New Zealand and to return home if they
are able to, there are stranded New Zealanders all over the world. Many are located in
comparatively low-risk countries |s6(a)| but a number are in moderate- or
high-risk countries with no commercial airline options. Registrations on Safe Travel record that
7,623 New Zealanders are located in moderate-risk countries, and 3,326 are in high-risk
countries, though the actual numbers may be higher and it is unclear how many of these are
stranded travellers. It is beyond our resources to bring all New Zealanders home and there is
an urgent need for clarity over where we will concentrate our efforts — and where we will not.
Orchestrated charter options from low-risk countries also undermine efforts by commercial
carriers to sustain routes which are important to New Zealand’s broader economic activity.

3 Drawing on MFAT’s risk assessment matrix (see Annex for more detail), which divides
all countries where New Zealanders are located into “red” (high risk), “amber” (moderate risk)
and “green” (low risk), we should clearly signal to those in the low-risk “green” countries and
regions that Government will not organise repatriations. This will encourage them to use
commercial airline options, which are still available (if often expensive) but may soon
disappear. For New Zealanders in the “amber” countries, in most cases numbering fewer than
