Page 7 of 14

arrangements to shelter in place. Failure to be clear on this could be offering perverse
incentives. There is anecdotal evidence that New Zealanders in Europe are holding off using
commercial air options because the ticket price is higher than normal and they are waiting to
see if repatriation is offered or whether they can take advantage of evacuation flights being
chartered by European governments to get their nationals home from New Zealand.
Orchestrated charter options from low-risk countries also undermine efforts by commercial
carriers to sustain routes which are important to New Zealand’s broader economic activity.
24 There are also important equity considerations, particularly where the number of
New Zealanders needing repatriation is small and the subsidy cost per passenger likely to be
high.
25 __ All of this suggests that when considering repatriation options, in particular chartering an
aircraft, a number of factors should be weighed, within the prioritisation framework MFAT has
developed to assess the most efficient repatriation options. These include

the ability of a locally resident or accredited
New Zealand High Commission or Embassy to assist, the number of New Zealanders who
might request assisted repatriation, and the likely subsidy cost per passenger. Further, where
a repatriation flight has been organised and New Zealanders choose not to take it, further
flights will not be organised.
The need for close inter-agency coordination and planning
26 Once a decision has been made on which countries to prioritise repatriation from, close
inter-agency coordination using existing centralised processes will be needed to ensure that
the impact on border agencies, managed isolation/quarantine facilities, the health system and
other support services such as housing is manageable and sustainable. This will require
careful planning regarding the sequencing of flights, the number of passengers that are
repatriated at any one time, their arrival destination and the lead time needed to ensure
managed isolation/quarantine accommodation is in place. There will also need to be ongoing
consideration of the extent to which passengers from high-risk locations may have come in
contact with COVID-19, with measures in place to mitigate the risk to personnel they come into
contact with and of potential onward transmission to the wider population in New Zealand.
27
