IN-CONFIDENCE-

7. The alert levels can be set without a State of National Emergency, and a State of
National Emergency can be declared or extended without specific, or any, alert levels
being in place.

8. In preparation for any possible shift in alert levels in the coming weeks, officials are
developing advice to ensure any conversations about these changes also consider the
CDEM Act framework, whether there remains a need to access the emergency powers
in the CDEM Act, or whether alternative arrangements are more appropriate (for
example transition periods or local states of emergency in certain areas).

Advice on extending the State of National Emergency this week

9. The State of National Emergency expires on Wednesday 15 April at 12.21pm. An
extension to a State of National Emergency should only be made if the situation remains
an emergency and the emergency is, or is likely to be, of such extent, magnitude, or
severity that the CDEM necessary or desirable in respect of it is, or is likely to be,
beyond the resources of CDEM Groups whose areas are affected by the emergency.

10. Each week, officials consider a wide range of factors when formulating advice on
whether it is necessary to extend the State of National Emergency. These are:

a) whether the statutory tests have been met;

b) the severity and impact/consequences of the current situation/emergency;

c) the degree of complexity of the necessary response (including the need for
coordination at the national level);

d) the potential need for powers under the CDEM Act to manage the response; and

e) the effectiveness of measures in place to manage and eliminate COVID-19.

41. 9(2)(h)

12. As Director CDEM, | consider extending the State of National Emergency is an
appropriate action to take in response to the ongoing and serious impact of COVID-19.
While the number of new confirmed and probable cases appears to be slowing,
maintaining a State of National Emergency will enable us to respond as necessary
should the situation change, and ensure we continue to have full access to the
resources available to preserve human health, society and the economy. | therefore
recommend you agree to extend the State of National Emergency by signing the form
attached at Appendix One.

13. Once you have signed the extension form, the next steps are to:

a) ask your Office to forward a photo of the declaration and the cover memo (attached
at Appendix Two) to the Bills Office so that the House can be immediately informed
of the extension;

b) release a media statement informing the public of the extension (attached at
Appendix Three); and

c) forward a copy of this briefing to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and
refer a copy to the COVID Ministerial Group for noting.

DPMC: 4246205 Page 5 of 10
TN EGNFIBENCE
