TNEONFAIBENCE-

APPENDIX THREE

Draft Media Statement regarding the extension of a State of National
Emergency due to COVID-19

State of National Emergency extended
The State of National Emergency to support the COVID-19 response will be extended a third
time, for a further seven days.
The initial declaration was made on March 25, and the seven-day declaration can be extended as
many times as necessary. It does not change the length of the Alert Level 4 lockdown.

“On the advice of the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management and after consultation
with the Prime Minister, | consider the State of National Emergency should remain in place to
support the COVID-19 response,” Minister of Civil Defence Peeni Henare said.

“While the recent COVID-19 case numbers have shown that we are turning a corner, it is
essential that we continue to have the powers activated by the State of National Emergency
available to maintain the Level 4 restrictions and ensure we do not backslide.

“The powers activated by the State of National Emergency enable civil defence emergency
management professionals to carry out critical work during this time including managing roads,
traffic and public places; providing first aid, food, shelter and accommodation.

“Since the State of National Emergency was first declared on 25 March, these powers have been
used to direct non-essential businesses to close, direct freedom campers to relocate, requisition
a carpark for COVID-19 testing, and close some roads.

“As we enter the fourth week under a State of national Emergency | would like to thank all New
Zealanders for their commitment to helping us break the chain of transmission.

“The plan is working and now is the time to stay the course and stay home. Stay home and stay
strong — kia kaha Aotearoa.”
The State of National Emergency and the COVID-19 Alert Levels are two distinct and separate
things. The Alert Levels specify the range of measures that we are taking against COVID-19. A
State of National Emergency provides the people managing the response in an emergency, in
this case COVID-19, access to powers they would not normally have, but might require now to
implement and enforce these measures.
This declaration by the Minister of Civil Defence extending the State of National Emergency can
be found in the Gazette https://gazette.govt.nz/

ENDS

DPMC: 4246205 Page 8 of 10

4N-CONFIBENGCE
