TNEONFIBENCE-
Purpose
1. This briefing provides advice on extending the State of National Emergency in response
to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on New Zealand. The State of National
Emergency expires on Wednesday 15 April at 12.21pm and must be extended before
this time if it is to remain in place for a further 7 days.
Overall situation: State of National Emergency for COVID-19

2. On Wednesday 25 March 2020, you declared a State of National Emergency over all
New Zealand to curtail the spread of COVID-19. You extended the State of National
Emergency at 9.27am on Tuesday 31 March 2020 and again at 9.25am on Tuesday 7
April 2020. The declaration expires on Wednesday 15 April 2020 at 12.21pm unless
extended prior.

3. While the number of cases of COVID-19 continue to rise in New Zealand, and there is
evidence of community transmission, | acknowledge the number of new confirmed and
probable cases detected each day appears to be slowing. On Sunday 12 April, a total
of 18 new confirmed and probable cases were reported, down from 29 cases the
previous day. Despite this, we need to maintain current restrictions on movement
supported by the powers under the Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Act
if we are to fully realise the benefits of the measures in place.

4. Since the State of National Emergency was first declared on 25 March, CDEM Groups
have used powers under the CDEM Act to direct non-essential businesses to close,
direct freedom campers to relocate, requisition a carpark for COVID-19 testing, provide
for essential supplies, undertake important maintenance, and close some roads. A table
summarising the use of powers by CDEM Groups since 25 March is attached at
Appendix Four for your information. This is for illustrative purposes; it does not reflect
powers used by the Director/National Controller, Police constables or others.

5. For further information on powers available under the CDEM Act by a declaration of a
State of National Emergency, and the overall process to extend a State of National
Emergency please refer to Briefing 20/32.

Interplay between the State of National Emergency and Alert Levels

6. The State of National Emergency and COVID-19 alert levels are two distinct things.
The alert levels specify the range of measures that the government is taking against
COVID-19, and are informed by public health advice from the Ministry of Health. A State
of National Emergency provides the people managing the response in an emergency,
in this case COVID-19, access to powers they would not normally have, but may require
to implement and enforce these measures.

DPMC: 4246205 Page 4 of 10
4N-CONFIBENGCE
