IN CONFIDENCE
Noting Paper
To Ad Hoc Cabinet Committee on COVID-19 Response
From John Ombler Date 11/03/2020
Purpose
1. Tonote the activities underway to ensure coordinated and effective cross-government public information
when responding to COVID-19. This paper is supported by the attached presentation outlining the public
health information campaign “Your health is in your hands’.
Comment
2. The COVID-19 situation could lead to a variety of scenarios, most of which have significant health,
social and economic impacts. Timely public information from all parts of government and civil society
will be critical in managing and minimising these impacts.

a. Clear and practical health guidance will need to be widely shared. Government agencies are well-
connected to sectors they support, regulate or consult with, and all agencies will need to use their
channels to ensure this guidance has the widest possible reach.

b. Leadership from across society will help maintain social cohesion during any outbreak or economic
downturn. Agencies will need to use their influence to encourage stakeholder-led communications
that promote commitment, solidarity and community support.

c. A wide range of services will support those affected by COVID-19. A clear single source of truth
will make it easier for the public to access the information they need.

d. Apandemic response will affect different parts of society in different ways. Agencies will need to
work with sectors and communities, including vulnerable population groups, to communicate the
government’s plan, understand the challenges these groups face, and provide practical support and
advice.

e. A two-way communication approach is required. Agencies will need to listen to and learn from
their stakeholders throughout the response.

3. Communications are being coordinated by an all-of-government Public Information Management

Function.

a. ANational Public Information Management team has been created as part of the move to a National
Crisis Management Centre-led response. The team is responsible for cross-government
communications coordination, the development of a National COVID-19 Communications
Strategy, media management for the national response, reporting and insights, and the COVID-19
all-of-government brand and information portal.

b. Communications leads have been appointed for each of the 11 Pandemic Plan workstreams. Multi-
agency communication groups within each workstream are collaborating on messaging, risk
management and insights.

Page 1 of 2
IN CONFIDENCE
