iss : ; e Appropriate processes will be put in place, so that S proposal 1S importe
Variations e This creates potential for a more 5 Pr 5
orn : ap robation offi ary conditions appro , CahhOLicome Some Gir tele
of release restrictive iteration of a condition P tle Icers vary ppropriately Re eae eer Ee unico Vanes:
conditions e Variations would be done on a case-by-case basis. Segoe NSEC NTR beoeg ea E
by ; e Implications for public safety if conditions |. Conditions are likely to be relaxed where 5 iS S cS Soe 4 are 2 MS WOU é
Preece are relaxed. compliance is impossible. Sree ns aes ee lee eee CTT
officers THIS Means the 5 salle <
e Any variation needs to be done in accordance with Reuieaaisee ni erat em ten ee at
the wider Parole framework and cannot Rona lanai aia ar eae Poe
fundamentally alter the conditions that have been ay
imposed (for instance, by adding new conditions.
Delayi P Id be in pri ding final e Staff have to operate in compliance with the Parole e Weare not proposing this power is
elaying «Person would be In prison penalng ne Act, and can only recall people when conditions are introduced at this time.
fecal recall application, without certainty around breached, when there is new offending punishable 5
final recall, which has implications for by imprisonment, or where there is an undue risk. Oy MAE INOS Selly GRIME CHS SIEMMe\t
rights and freedoms. : . this power is not reasonably necessary
e Corrections would triage these applications as much (unless the situation changes.
as possible. tal |
_ ' Adopt a triaging approach. As ab
Adjourn e Person would be remanded in custody ° P raging approac ” as
ESO until the hearing, which has rights
hearing implications
Provisions in the Sentencing Act 2002
. — : e Any probation officer varying a sentence imposed by [is ihOULIIMS DOWEF People Cannot c
GeO ° This power would not impinge negatively a court will be instructed to ensure that accurate th some of their release co
vary, on rights of individual offenders. records are maintained SNe iavaise Rp
cancel or , SS RG SIRS une 2
suspend e Although Corrections may apply system- | ° Probation officers have to operate in accordance cea a eee
special wide approach, variation has to be with the requirements of the sentence, and the e his powe allow Semience to be
conditions approved in individual cases. principles of the Sentencing Act. eiolamlialswense! eal
of pes e Corrections will implement systems to ensure e
Supemvision probation officers act within statutory authority.
sentence utd acne RS S
Vary . ASabovE e As above, an accurate record will be kept. S above
cancel or e As above in respect of lawful requirements.
suspend
special
conditions
of intensive
12
B4008
T
