In Confidence
Appendix One:
Proposed Risks and implications : Mitigations Reasonably necessary
power
: . a e Hearings by phone links will be prioritised wherever ihe Parole Boardihas alre :
Hearings e Prisoners, victims and other people who 5 5 ; pees
a i possible. Hearings on the papers will only be at it Cannot maintain phone ‘
oe sone wie tea Bepomuinty abe resorted to if there are significant challenges with cases
. ications. as
heard in person under these measures. communicets € nere be Hearing delays if ihe PEWEr to
This has human rights implications. e The impacts of potential hearings on the papers may HAVE NEALINGS OM UNE PAPEES 1S NC
be mitigated by encouraging all parties to provide aletiVale
e Board convenors can conduct hearings by written submissions to the Parole Board.
phone link, but the Alert Level Fourmay | 6 Offenders still have the right to seek a judicial review
create oF eae ncion rae: There in the High Court if they wish to challenge any
are significant demands on phone decisions.
availability in prisons during the Covid-19
alert, as phones are prisoners only means
of communication with whanau and wider
| support. US ear cake MM
Sole 2 eReeswil bs delermined’by onepermon e Offenders can still seek a judicial review if they wish mhe Parole Board canne
4 ‘ laa ies ’ to challenge decisions. cument hearing schedule
hearings which could have implications for the aDS Age. CERISI Etec taian tte estaeeal ith
robustness of decision-making. e Convenors are trained, experienced, employees of Reese a he vet
the Parole Board. eo (eaters AN
e Panels will be convened by phone whenever
possible.
. e People still have to be released before their e Weare not proposing this power is
Ree ° ne Tnoter al cette por ead 4 statutory release date. introduced at this time
after the have otherwise because of a backlog. e While there might be a backlog, other measures e If the powers set out in section 13
epidemic This power gives the Parole Board the under these provisions will allow the Parole Board to (hearings are hearing on the papers are
ability to prioritise hearings for people who minimise the scale of the backlog. activated, this power is not reasonably
have waited longer. ° Pressing matters could still be triaged. necessary (unless the situation changes.)
e This triaging approach might delay e Depending on funding, there is the potential to bring
: release for some people. new members on board, although there would be a
time lag due to training requirements.
1
B4008
T
