The notice will not activate other epidemic provisions in the Parole Act

36. The remaining Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 powers in the Parole Act will not be
activated, which provide that:

36.1. the Board may delay considering an offender's hearing after the epidemic
comes to an end, if other offenders have been waiting longer for a hearing
(s27B)

36.2. the Board will only have to consider a recall application as soon as reasonably
practicable (S65A)

36.3. the courts can adjourn the hearing of an application for an extended supervision
order (S107GA).

Assessment of the number of people impacted

37. 550-600 people appear before the Parole Board each month. In the absence of an
Emergency Management Notice, officials anticipate that there would be a significant
backlog of hearings after we move to a lower Alert Level. There are approximately 35
applications for recall each month, which might also be delayed as resources would have
been stretched.

38. If these changes had not been made, and the parole system had not been able to function
effectively, people in prison would have had their release dates extended with a flow on
impact on prison beds.

eople will still be remanded in custody during the
lert Level Four.

The notice allows community sentences to be administered during the Alert Level Four

39. While we are at Alert Level Four, people on a community-based sentence will not be able
to comply with every condition imposed by the courts. To address this challenge, an
Epidemic Management Notice was needed under the Sentencing Act (Rec 4).

40. People will not be able to attend community work during the Alert Level Four. While
Corrections can remit up to 10 percent of a community work sentence, it could not suspend
the sentence temporarily. Greater flexibility was required to ensure that this sentence can
be administered lawfully.

41. Like parolees, people on sentences of supervision, intensive supervision, community
detention and home detention (or post-detention conditions) are subject to standard and
special conditions. Conditions can only be varied by the court, and not all conditions allow
probation officers to exercise discretion.

42. Senior Officials advised that this places Corrections and offenders in a difficult position,
given that conditions remain in force, but offenders cannot comply. While courts will
continue to sit, variations on this scale require a huge volume of applications, which could
have inundated the court system during the epidemic. Applications will still need to be filed
in most cases, but variations can come into effect before they are heard.

6
