We are not seeking notices for the other inactive provisions in the Parole Act

16 This recommendation does not cover the remaining inactive powers in the Parole Act,
which provide that:

° the Board may delay considering an offender's hearing after the epidemic comes to
an end, if other offenders have been waiting longer for a hearing (s27B)

° the Board will only have to consider a recall application as soon as reasonably
practicable (s65A)

° the courts can adjourn the hearing of an application for an extended supervision
order (S107GA).

Assessment of the number of people impacted

17 550-600 people appear before the Parole Board each month. If we do not make the
requested changes, we anticipate that there will be a backlog of hearings after we move to
a lower Alert Level. There are approximately 35 applications for recall each month, which
might also be delayed as resources will be stretched.

18 If we do not make these changes and parole is not able to function, people in prison will
bave their release dates extended with a flow on impact on prison beds Saameenuy

People will still be remanded in custody and sentenced during the Alert Level Four.

Issue Two: Managing community sentences during the Alert Level Four

19 While we are at Alert Level Four, people on a community-based sentence will not be able
to comply with every condition imposed by the courts. To address this challenge, we also
request an Epidemic Management Notice under the Sentencing Act.

20 People will not be able to attend community work during the Alert Level Four. While
Corrections can remit up to 10 percent of a community work sentence, it cannot suspend
the sentence temporarily. Greater flexibility is required to ensure that this sentence can be
administered lawfully.

21 Like parolees, people on sentences of supervision, intensive supervision, community
detention and home detention (or post-detention conditions) are subject to standard and
special conditions. Conditions can only be varied by the court, and not all conditions allow
probation officers to exercise discretion.

22 This places Corrections and offenders in a difficult position, given that conditions remain in
force, but offenders cannot comply. While courts will continue to sit, variations on this
scale require a huge volume of applications in the courts, which could inundate the court
system during the epidemic.

The proposed notice will activate specific provision in the Sentencing Act

23 Issuing an Epidemic Management Notice will provide probation officers with the power to
vary, cancel or suspend aspects of sentences. Under normal circumstances, these
powers sit entirely with the judiciary, apart from small, discrete aspects (such as the
standard power to remit up to 10 percent of community work hours.)

5
B4008
