Appendix Two: Public health factors for consideration for border measures review as at 3 March 2020
High-level Factors for Indicate if there has been a change in this factor since | Overall comment
considerations | consideration the last assessment
NB: these factors have
not been weighted or
prioritised
Appropriate guidance There is guidance available on the Ministry of Health The overall status of readiness of New Zealand's
documents and website for the health sector and the general public. health system to respond is good. The DHBs have
management processes Regular border advisories are being issued and protocols | been asked to provide response plans to the Ministry.
available for the health for the management of the first case and subsequent coum x
. There are travel restrictions in place for travellers
system cases in New Zealand have been developed. A COVID-19 . . .
% FER Pi BEING TIEUBIOOEL from mainland China and Iran. Travellers returning
ate e Respronne: Plait is caxteeily henig develaped. from China, Iran, Northern Italy and the Republic of
Sconatinalaadiialior ‘Ther ’hasBeenneidiange Korea stotld self-isolate fot 14 days. Travellers front
a a other countries or areas with suspected or confirmed
Readiness of Ps 2 Ps sustained transmission are asked who develop
1. | Zealand's health system
New Zealand's symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of breath
health syst . . i i
toes oe ne Current response aims No Indicative health sector alert code has been issued. NZ SHERI SEEK Tea Wiel SEIEE,
cases olor (e.g. stage of NZIPAP) preparedness measures are currently being guided by the | The Ministry's Chief Medical Officer has engaged
eatbreak ‘Keep it Out” phases of the NZIPP. widely with clinical colleagues in the sector to identify
issues, which are being managed actively.
Acceptability and There has been an increased concern regarding . .
feasibility of current international students and whether an exemption should Manayenent of ie Supply: ctiaioy for RPESOpphEsifar
measures for key be considered for selected groups. Ministers have decided themdder sectors beingiestablistied,
stakeholders against any exemptions.
Workforce sustainability | There have been isolated instances of workforce issues
of current and/or regarding self-isolation. Public Health border staff are
proposed measures close to capacity.
19
8t605jj9dp 2020-04-20 12:28:53
