Infectiousness Virus is spread through contact with respiratory droplets manland Chinarandother eoUniEs: Mote SECU
= " ee : assessments on the transmissibility will be made.
% in the air and on inanimate objects (surfaces)
Emerging
evidence pout Incubation period Estimates of the median incubation period are 5-6 days
ransmissibility (range 0-14 days) and estimates of serial interval range
from 4.4-7.5 days.
Case fatality risk The fatality rate within China is currently 2.3% and is lower | The emerging evidence about the severity of the
Emerging outside of China. illness has remained constant since the first case
evidence about details were released from mainland China. There is
severity of Severe disease risk or There isn't enough data about the number of severe cases inadequate severe case data available for the global
illness hospitalisation rate apart from the situation in mainland China which has situation because the numbers are small compared
remained steady ~14 percent. with the numbers in mainland China.
Travel restrictions advice | WHO still advises travel restrictions are not appropriate. WHO advice has remained the same.
s < = Th 1 state parties officialh ti
Other advice The WHO has increased the assessment of the risk of ee een ee ee
: 5 : additional health measures that significantly interfere
x spread and risk of impact of COVID-19 to very high at the oo i
WHO advice " z 5 s with international traffic
global and regional level. The risk level for China remains
very high. Australia has recently announced it will lift travel
restrictions for a small number of school children
from China.
Disease control The disease control measures have remained the same. There have been noteworthy changes in the public
measures in other health measures in other countries.
equates terTmOnes The US CDC has in place the following travel alerts:
i . - . Chi \d Iran: level 3 id tial travel,
Public health Exit screening measures | The measures have remained the same. ve an ae SNE 2 anole nonessen ee TNE
measures in at source widespread community transmission, with restrictions
other countries | countries/territories omentry to thes
South Korea and Italy; level 3, avoid nonessential
Measures to prevent or The measures have remained the same. travel, widespread community transmission
delay virus entering Japan: level 2, practice enhanced precautions,
sustained community transmission,;
2a
8t605jj9dp 2020-04-20 12:28:53
