IN CONFIDENCE
Purpose

1. To provide information on the surveillance approach to COVID-19, and outline key
elements of surveillance that are currently operational and planned for the short- and
middle-term.

The surveillance approach

2. Disease surveillance is the ongoing systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of
data, closely integrated with the timely dissemination of these data to those responsible for
preventing and controlling disease. Surveillance is a core component of communicable
disease control. It provides information on new cases to support Keep It Out and Stamp It
Out activity, on disease risks across the population, and on the effectiveness of the
response.

3. The Ministry of Health has developed a surveillance plan based upon the fundamental
principles of communicable disease control. The plan outlines the current and future
components of COVID-19 surveillance. It identifies the specific sources of information that
will be used, and the analysis that will be conducted to inform front line responses and high
level decision making.

4. The surveillance plan was developed with expert advice from the Epidemiology Subgroup of
the Technical Advisory Group convened by the Ministry of Health. This group includes the
external expertise of Prof Michael Baker (University of Otago), Dr Annette Nesdale
(Wellington Regional Public Health), Assoc Prof Patricia Priest (University of Otago), Prof
Nigel French (Massey University), Prof Chris Bullen (University of Auckland), Dr Virginia
Hope (ESR). It is consistent with expert public commentary, including that by
communicable disease epidemiologists and public health specialists at the University of
Otago.

5. The approach to surveillance for COVID-19 is based on:

a) Existing surveillance systems for notifiable diseases operated by Regional Public Health
Units and ESR. This system is currently providing the case numbers and details that are
being regularly reported.

b) Existing surveillance mechanisms for influenza-like-illness (ILI)

c) Additional surveillance based on COVID-19 testing, ensuring the best testing coverage
of symptomatic patients, particularly in populations with high risk. This is being
implemented through general practice, Community Based Assessment Centres (CBACs)
and laboratories, which are joining their systems to allow the data to be collected and
shared. All patients who are in hospitals and have symptoms of respiratory illness are
also being tested.

d) Wider sampling across the community of asymptomatic cases, possibly targeted to
specific localities or population groups. This approach will not produce useful short term

Page 2 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
