IN CONFIDENCE
surveillance information, but will complement other surveillance mechanisms in the
medium term.
Elements of surveillance currently in place
6. The immediate surveillance activity for COVID-19 is based upon the following elements:

a) Existing ILI surveillance conducted by ESR on behalf of the Ministry of Health, including
sentinel practices, patient reports of symptoms to Flu Tracker, and reports of symptoms
to HealthLine. This is currently operational and functioning as usual.

b) The core communicable disease surveillance system, operated at the frontline by PHUs,
which feed information on positive COVID-19 cases through to ESR and the Ministry of
Health via the EpiSurv database. This is currently operational and functioning as usual,
with efforts underway to ensure timely data entry, which is under some pressure arising
from the high number of cases.

c) Contact tracing data, which provides information on confirmed cases and their contacts,
and how these emerge as clusters. This is being collected by the National Contract
Tracing Centre in a newly-developed information system.

d) Aregular survey, linked back to participants in the New Zealand Health Survey, has
been developed and is in place for monitoring ongoing attitudes and mood relevant to
COVID-19.

e) ESR is conducting genetic surveillance of COVID-19 samples via whole genome
sequencing in order to understand which of the eight known strains are important in New
Zealand.

Next Steps
Short-term implementation for COVID-19 surveillance
7. New COVID-19 surveillance mechanisms are being stood up rapidly.

a) Anational dataset is being developed for COVID-19 lab tests to be able to access both
positive and negative test results across New Zealand. Expected to be running by 20
April 2020, this dataset would allow the Ministry of Health to link further valuable
information about people being tested for COVID-19 symptoms. This will also allow
epidemiologists at the Ministry of Health to calculate rates and trends of disease with
clearer oversight at a local level, on its impact on key populations including Maori and
Pacific people, and on its impact based on socioeconomic deprivation.

b) Anational dataset is being developed for CBACs, to monitor for equitable health
outcomes based on representativeness of the population. Where there is an indication
that key populations, particularly Maori, are not being tested in sufficient volume to
support accurate monitoring of COVID-19, DHBs will be asked to extend their efforts to
test symptomatic people in those populations. It is expected that this database will be in
operation by 10 April 2020.

Page 3 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
