IN CONFIDENCE

8. These mechanism are about enabling key data to be available. This will help to reduce

potential duplication of data, and ensure that reported data is consistent and robust.
Medium-term options for COVID-19 surveillance

9. When COVID-19 prevalence is higher, there will be value in measuring the level of that
prevalence in the community. This will allow an assessment of the prevailing level of
immunity among the population, and the risk of infection-spread from that point. Options for
prevalence testing include:

a) Antibody testing from a random sample in the community. This would be oversampled
for high risk groups in the population, such as Maori and Pacific people, in order to
ensure that conclusions about immunity and future risk consider the particular risks
faced by those populations.

b) Surveillance of prevalence in the population following the initial wave of infection. This
will be likely to take the form of an immunology study of randomly sampled people in the
population. However, this approach will not be beneficial unless the prevalence of
COVID-19 increases

|

10. The Ministry of Health will continue to work with public health experts to understand at what
point these surveillance options would be required.

Surveillance reporting

11. The Ministry of Health will complete its initial surveillance report next week, with
independent replication of results and comment from the Technical Advisory Group, to
support advice for the Cabinet meeting on 20 April 2020. This will be generated by a team of
analysts and expert epidemiologists from the Ministry of Health, ESR and other agencies.
The analysis will be replicated by an independent group in order to provide quality
assurance and to allow high confidence in the results and interpretation.

12. Surveillance reports will provide systematic information on the progress of the COVID-19
pandemic in New Zealand, including local and regional breakdowns of incidence and
prevalence of the disease, and analysis of any emerging clusters. This core information will
be the basis for advice on the risk faced by the population at the current level of lockdown,
and for estimates of how that might change under other population management options.

13. The standard notifiable disease surveillance system, operated by ESR, provides data back
to PHUs and to the National Contact Tracing Centre for managing cases when they are
discovered.

14

Page 4 of 5
IN CONFIDENCE
