Page 2 of 3

Key points
Initial reaction from Pacific governments in response to New Zealand’s border
restrictions has been positive. The step has been seen as a substantial
mitigation measure to help protect the Pacific from the entry of nCoV.
However, we remain mindful that New Zealand’s border restrictions have
implications for Pacific citizens who may wish to transit New Zealand on return
from mainland China (as it does for other nationals wishing to transit through
New Zealand). |s9(2)(g)(i)} — Fiji has adjusted its border settings to match those
of Australia and New Zealand, so all three main transport hubs for the region now
have the same restrictions. The situation remains fluid within the region, with
individual Pacific governments continuing to put additional national border
restrictions in place.
We are not aware that any Pacific Island citizens have been denied boarding or
entry to New Zealand since the border restrictions commenced, but officials are
monitoring the situation closely. No Pacific government has asked us for an
exemption to allow travel to New Zealand by its citizens, however, we are
realistic that this may well occur within the restriction period, particularly if it is
extended beyond its initial duration.
At this stage, officials do not recommend that we include this exemption as a
region-wide provision. We have no information available yet on what numbers of
citizens may be involved.

That said, we may be able to
accommodate requests on a case by case basis if we were confident that
appropriate accommodation and support arrangements were available.

In practice, this would likely manifest as either a government to government
request (likely through our diplomatic posts), or individuals seeking to board
planes to New Zealand. Officials are coordinating on what a protocol for
response could look like in either scenario, so that we are best placed to support
our Pacific partners. While it may be possible to secure satisfactory community-
based arrangements for individuals, any requests for large numbers of citizens
(e.g. a returning sports team) would likely require the use of standalone
quarantine facilities, such as is being used for the isolation requirements of the
