Security Level — In Confidence

15. MPI will also need to consider the impacts on complimentary sectors such as
processing of seafood for other markets. Officials are aware that New Zealand
exporters often have a number of arrangements with processors in China where
product is then re-exported into Europe. It is uncertain what the implications of the
Coronavirus will be on these relationships.

Rock lobster

16. China is the leading export market for live rock lobster, accounting for 99% of all
exports. The outbreak has significantly impacted demand for rock lobster. poe

i)

This has come at an unfortunate
time for exporters with a large volume of rock lobsters being held in New Zealand
holding facilities to meet export demand for Chinese New Year celebrations (25
Jan — 8 Feb).

17. Fisheries New Zealand is working with industry to actively consider options that
might provide relief to fishers and exporters at this time. MPI proposes to consult
and advise on an urgent amendment to regulations to allow carry forward of up to
10% of uncaught annual catch entitlement (ACE). This amendment will need to be
made before the start of the new fishing year on 1 April. MPI will provide a
separate briefing on this (B20-0067 refers).

18. Demand in other markets is currently limited. The collapse of the Chinese market
has impacted most rock lobster exporting countries leading to increased supply
into alternative markets. The domestic market in New Zealand is also small (about
100 tonnes annually), although this may be driven by domestic prices reflecting
export prices less the cost of transport.

19. Industry also estimate that 420 tonnes of rock lobster will be uncaught for the
current fishing year. This could result in a loss of annual revenue to the catching
sector alone of approximately $36 million (based on average port price information
of $86.00), 15% of the total potential revenue of $236 million.

MPI’s response and engagement with primary sector exporters

20. The New Zealand Government has limited ability to manage many of the risks and
disruptions as a result of Coronavirus — including port and transport delays and
changes in market conditions. MPI is however working to ensure exporters are
updated on the situation so they can implement their own contingency plans
(AM20-0062 refers).

21. To better understand and manage risk, MPI/MFAT/NZTE (including its Beijing
based representatives) are seeking information from New Zealand businesses and
officials based in China around the impacts of Coronavirus on their operations,
supply chains, and the regulatory settings.

Page 4 of 5
