Security Level — In Confidence

Value of New Zealand’s seafood exports to the Chinese market

7. |New Zealand currently provides 81% of fresh mussels that China imports, but this
only represents 1% of total mussels exported from New Zealand ($4.9m). This
means that while orders from China for live mussels have stopped and many
orders for frozen/chilled mussels have been cancelled, the impact on the New
Zealand mussel industry is not particularly significant.

8. China is the leading export market for New Zealand live rock lobster, accounting
for 99% of all exports ($290.4m) making it extremely exposed to impacts of the
Coronavirus due to the perishable nature of live rock lobster (paragraphs 17-20
explains this further).

9. New Zealand currently exports 8% of chilled salmon to China ($6.9m) with the
United States being the largest export market for this species at 59% ($50.5m).
Similar to mussels, the salmon industry is less exposed as it has alternative export
markets. SS@O)G)

10. China is the leading export market for New Zealand live/fresh Paua, accounting for
67% ($3.5m) of all exports. Officials are uncertain as to how exposed this species
is yet and will continue to monitor the impacts and work with industry to understand
what those might be.

11. Itis too early yet to determine what the impacts will be for the other species, but if
the situation persists, we may expect to see market impacts in other export
destinations as our products could face tough market competition from seafood
and other proteins previously exported to China.

It is too soon to determine the full impact on the seafood industry

12. MPI is closely monitoring the impacts of Coronavirus on New Zealand’s primary
sector trade and providing exporters with the latest information. The situation is
evolving rapidly and there remains significant uncertainty.

13. It is too soon to tell what the full extent of the impact will be on the seafood
industry. Some exporters and fishers will likely implement their own contingency
plans. This may include halting their exports until they have further clarity or not
harvesting products until they can determine market demand.

14. The impact on remaining fisheries exports (e.g. mainly frozen) is likely to be
determined by the level of broader disruption in China. Alternative markets
continue to have a strong demand for some of these products.

Page 3 of 5
