Security Level — In confidence
The Guard Safety telephone support service is in place for fishers under pressure
from change (initiated due to concerns about fisher wellbeing related to proposals
for fisheries closures and restrictions to protect Maui dolphins, but not restricted to
that source of pressure). Referrals can be made to mental health phone lines
where applicable.
If further support is needed as the situation develops, the current initiatives could
be refocused or extended as required. For example the Guard Safety concept
could be extended to other sub-sectors affected by the economic impacts of
Coronavirus, such as rock lobster fishers (annual catch entitlement holders) and
forestry contractors. Rural Support Trust and other services could be extended.
iii) Tailored relief for specific sub-sectors
Tailored packages can be designed to respond to the needs of particular sub-
sectors, where a particular issue is identified.
For example, the Minister of Fisheries announced earlier this week that a limited
release of rock lobster back into the sea will be allowed. Fisheries New Zealand
will work with the rock lobster industry to give effect to this decision. In addition, the
Minister is considering allowing unused catch entitlements to be carried forward
from the current fishing year (which ends on 31 March) to the next.
Initiatives such as the Gisborne 0800 number mentioned above could be
expanded or mirrored in other regions to help local authorities and business
owners assess impacts and respond to the particular challenges for their region.
The government could also explore providing assistance to enable affected
workers to be connected other employment. For example officials from the Wilding
Conifer Programme are assessing the options and feasibility of using harvesting
crews for wilding control activities — there could be some additional costs
associated with this as it would be above existing programme activities.
iv) Direct financial assistance
There is a potential need to alleviate acute financial impact on affected individuals
and businesses who could face significant impacts on their livelihood.
892) OGv)
Further analysis would be essential to ensure a consistent approach across the
primary industries and other affected sectors such as tourism. Care is needed to
minimise precedent risk and fiscal cost to the Crown and ensure consistency with
New Zealand’s obligations under the World Trade Organisation (WTO).

Page 5 of 8
