i Gel) MINISTRY OF SOCIAL
NEGBL| DEVELOPMENT
YSERA! te MANATO WHAKAHIATO ORA
Rar az

Report

To: Hon Carmel Sepuloni, Minister for Social Development

From: Debbie Power, Chief Executive, Ministry of Social Development

Date: 25 March 2020

This report includes legal advice and is legally privileged. It should not be disclosed on

an information request without further legal advice

Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Regulations 2018

- Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification

Order

Purpose

1 This report recommends modifications to section 96(1)(c) the Social Security Act
2018 under Section 15 of the Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (“EPA”).

Recommendation from the Chief Executive

2. To make a modification order to the Social Security Act 2018, the Parliamentary
Counsel Office have advised that the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Social
Development must recommend to the Minister that this modification is necessary.

3. The key criteria for consideration are that:

3.1. the effects of an epidemic of the quarantinable disease stated in the attached
epidemic notice are, or are likely to be, such that the requirement is impossible
or impracticable to comply (or comply fully) with; and

3.2 the modifications the order makes go no further than is, or is likely to be,
reasonably necessary in the circumstances.

4 Under section 15(2)(a) of the EPA I consider the effects of the quarantinable disease
referred to in the attached Ministry of Health Epidemic notice are, or are likely to be,
such that a modification to section 96(1)(c) of the Social Security Act 2018 is
required to ensure Temporary Additional Support applications can continue to be
properly administered.

5 The recommended modifications go no further than required to give effect to this
purpose.

Proposed modification of the Social Security Act 2018

6 The recommended modification changes the requirement in section 96(1)(c) of the
Social Security Act 2018 that, before a person (P), is entitled to Temporary
Additional Support, P must meet criteria and requirement in the Social Security
Regulations 2018. Those criteria and requirements in regulation 61 include that
Temporary Additional Support may be granted to an applicant for that support only

We help New Zealanders to be safe, strong and independent
Manaaki tangata, manaaki whanau
