IN-CONFIBDENCE

APPENDIX 4
Draft Media Statement regarding the extension of a state of national
emergency due to COVID-19
DATE
Civil Defence
Minister of Civil Defence Peeni Henare, today declared that the State of National Emergency will be
extended for a further seven days in response to COVID-19.
“The State of National Emergency was first declared on the 25" of March and will extend for another
seven days as we continue to manage the spread of COVID-19,” Mr Henare said.
“On the advice of the Director and National Controller Civil Defence Emergency Management and after
consultation with the Prime Minister, | consider the continued response required to combat COVID-19 is
of such a degree that it will be beyond the capacity of local Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups
to respond to on their own.”
“The powers available under a State of National Emergency enable us to ensure all areas have the
resources, support and powers they need to keep their communities safe and healthy during this
challenging time. We will be constantly reviewing the situation as to whether further extensions of the
State of National Emergency are required and if the powers under this function are necessary. For now,
they are.”
The powers activated by the State of National Emergency enables civil defence emergency management
professionals to carry out critical work during this time including managing roads, traffic and public places,
issuing first aid, providing food, shelter and accommodation.
“This is only the second time in New Zealand’s history we have declared a state of emergency and the
only time in modern memory that we have dealt with an emergency of this nature,” Mr Henare notes.
“This pandemic requires a significant and coordinated response by and across central and local
government in circumstances we have never seen before. It has also called on every New Zealander to
make sacrifices in the normal daily lives.”
“We understand these are incredibly challenging times but we urge all New Zealanders to please follow
official advice. We have only a limited window of opportunity to stamp this out and we have to be
vigilant if we are going to fight this. These measures are the best things we can do to break the chain of
transmission and the sacrifices people are making will save lives.”
“I'd like to thank those who are working tirelessly to contain the spread of COVID-19, particularly those in
essential services who are away from their homes in order to keep others safe in theirs.”
“Now is the time for us to remain at home and be strong together as a nation - kia kaha Aotearoa.”
This declaration by the Minister of Civil Defence extending the state of national emergency can be found
in the Gazette https://gazette.govt.nz/
ENDS

EXTENSION OF THE STATE OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY Report No. 20/32

DPMC: 4239638 Page 9 of 9

AN-GONFIDENCE
