TN EGNFIBENCE
declaration to your Private Secretary - Civil Defence, he can refer this photo, together
with a cover memo, to the Clerk of the House and the Bills Office, for (remote)
presentation to the House. A draft of the Cover memo is attached as Appendix Three,
which we will update as required for each subsequent extension.

16. Officials will publish the extension in the Gazette as soon as practicable, and use a
variety of mechanisms to immediately inform the public, as required under the CDEM
Act, while ensuring links to the wider all-of-government COVID-19 communication
strategy.

17. After each extension, your office will need to release a media statement. A draft media
statement is attached at Appendix Four. Officials will provide an updated version to your
office upon receipt of each signed extension form.

18. The extension will expire 7 days after the time and date on which the declaration of the
state of national emergency came into force, unless further extended or terminated at
an earlier time. There is no limit as to how many times a state of national emergency
may be extended.

Advice on extending the state of national emergency this week

19. The state of national emergency expires on 1 April at 12.21pm and | recommend an
extension to ensure ongoing delivery of the Government approach to managing
COVID-19. The ongoing and serious nature of the impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand
indicates an ongoing need for a state of national emergency to remain in place. Details
of powers under the CDEM Act are detailed in Appendix One.

20. An extension to a state of national emergency should only be made if the situation
remains an emergency and the emergency is, or is likely to be, of such extent,
magnitude, or severity that the civil defence emergency management necessary or
desirable in respect of it is, or is likely to be, beyond the resources of Civil Defence
Emergency Management Groups whose areas are affected by the emergency.

21. 9(2)(h)

22. |, as Director Civil Defence Emergency Management, and officials consider extending
the state of national emergency is an appropriate action to take in response to COVID-
19. It will enable us to respond by all means necessary as the situation develops, and
ensure we have full access to the resources available to preserve human health, society
and the economy.

DPMC: 4239638 Page 5 of 9
+N CONFIDENCE
