4IN-CONFIDENCE-

7. Ensuring emergency powers are readily available strengthens incentives for the public
to follow COVID-19 intervention measures and provides a legislative backstop that
complements Health Act powers, and for agencies whose own legislation provides
limited direction or powers in the event of an emergency.

8. While it is too early to know definitively what powers will be needed to support the
response to COVID-19, NEMA officials are collecting information about how the CDEM
Act powers are used, and how they intersect with powers under the Health Act and
Epidemic Notice, to best enable the implementation and enforcement of alert level 4.
We will be able to provide you with more information about this in subsequent briefings.

Relationship between the state of national emergency and COVID-19
alert levels

9. Astate of national emergency is not dependent on a COVID-19 alert level 4 alert being
in place (in either a local or national level). The COVID-19 Alert framework was
developed to indicate measures and interventions the Government considers are
required to address the level of risk to public health. A state of national emergency in
this situation supports higher alert levels. If the alert levels change, this does not mean
the state of national emergency should be terminated.

10. The nuanced relationship between the alert level 4 and the state of national emergency
will not likely be clear to New Zealanders. If the state of national emergency is not
extended, it will likely cause public confusion and possibly send a signal that the
situation is not as serious as it is. This could undermine the Government’s response
and compromise the outcomes the Government is trying to achieve (i.e. cause people
to follow the interventions more loosely, or not follow them). Maintaining a state of
national emergency would clearly signal to New Zealanders that there remains a high
risk of further sustained and intensive transmission of COVID-19.

11. NEMA is engaging with the all-of-government response to consider how decisions on
changing alert levels will align with decisions on extending or terminating the state of
national emergency.

Process for you to extend the duration of a state of national emergency
and required communication

12. To extend the state of national emergency, you are required to complete the form
attached at Appendix Two.

13. When you have determined that such an extension is required, you may sign the form
at any point prior to the expiry of the existing declaration. The extension comes into
force immediately before the existing declaration expires.

14. Should a second or subsequent extension be required, we will supply you with the
necessary form to complete (that details the time and date of the original declaration
and every subsequent extension).

15. We must immediately inform the House of Representatives of this extension. Due to
the travel restrictions imposed under level 4, please send a photograph of the signed

DPMC: 4239638 Page 4 of 9
4IN-CONFIDENCE-
