IN- CONFIDENCE
Purpose

1. This briefing provides advice on whether to extend the duration of the state of national
emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic/epidemic impact on New Zealand.
The state of national emergency expires on 1 April at 12.21pm and must be extended
before this time to remain in place for a further 7 days.

Overall situation: state of national emergency for COVID-19

2. New Zealand is currently at COVID-19 alert level 4. Cases of COVID-19 continue to
rise in New Zealand, with 589 confirmed and probable cases as at 0900 hours on 30
March 2020, and evidence of some cases of community transmission. The range of
interventions required under alert level 4 may require immediate access to powers
made available under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act (CDEM Act)
during a state of national emergency.

3. You made a declaration on Wednesday 25 March 2020 at 12.21pm that a state of
national emergency exists over the whole of New Zealand.

4. The effect of the declaration is that the control of the response to COVID-19 is being
managed at the national level and supports reducing and managing risk at the local and
regional levels, and provides Police powers that are complementary to their Health Act
powers. The aim is to ensure the health system capacity is not exceeded, through
strengthening public health measures and supporting the enforcement of COVID-19
interventions to reduce and eliminate sustained and intensive transmission of the
disease.

Powers available under the CDEM Act by a declaration of a state of
national emergency

5. The powers available in a state of emergency are significant, and must only be used
when reasonably necessary. Since the state of national emergency was declared,
CDEM Act powers have been used to requisition a car park for COVID-19 testing in
Canterbury and to ensure CDEM Groups have their Emergency Operation Centres and
welfare structures activated to the appropriate standard. Constables have also had
access to the CDEM Act powers to reinforce the Government's self-isolation
requirements.

6. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, the likelihood of needing to use emergency
powers increases. For example, the powers may be used to ensure the appropriate
management of fuel and food so that communities, particularly vulnerable groups, have
what they need. There may also be ongoing and heightened demand and competition
for resources at a regional level that require management/intervention at a national
level.

DPMC: 4239638 Page 3 of 9
IN- CONFIDENCE
