Key points

e This advice has been jointly prepared and agreed by Government agencies: MOH,
MBIE, MFAT, MOT, Customs, and the Treasury.

Rationale for moving to stronger border measures now

e Weare advanced in our preparations to respond to an outbreak in New Zealand.
However, we have more information now available about the virus’ epidemiology,
including asymptomatic transmission, and are learning lessons from how other countries
have managed outbreaks, applied innovative and timely approaches, and in doing So,
have controlled and also impacted on mortality rates from their outbreaks.

e There is increasing evidence that countries that go hard, go early and implementa broad
package of measures to slow the spread of the virus are managing to containany,
outbreaks and control the worst impacts of the pandemic.

e Stronger border measures would buy us additional time to further advahcée*our
preparedness across our health system, communities, workplaces, education system
and government. Even in just 30 days, we could bring forward and scale up planned
actions for our preparedness and implement innovative néw méasu es. These could
make the difference in flattening the peak of an outbreaksin New Zealand, and reduce
the scale of severe cases (and mortality rate) we see here.

e The more we postpone cases in New Zealand, the/better the healthcare system can
function, the lower the mortality rate, and the higher the share of the population that will
be vaccinated before it gets infected.

Rationale for a wider package of measures

e These additional border measures*€ould\stave off the economic disruption of a
widespread COVID-19 outbreak 'n,New Zealand. However, we recognise the measures
themselves would be highly diSruptive’and have significant economic consequences. As
the rest of the world is Movihg,to\close borders, the impact of New Zealand Government
decisions is less of theé,driver of these wider impacts.

«International relation: iw

This will require us to prioritise
development of a (ellef package for aviation sector to encourage airlines to remain in
New Zealand’so that we can re-bound from the restrictions quickly and not have
significant impacts on our tourism sector, exporters, international connections, and
economy)

ef Weowillalso may need to consider options for financial support for specific air routes to
ensure key freight keeps moving between New Zealand and other countries and
undertake urgent work with Air New Zealand as part of our shareholder role around
impacts on the airline. Free and frank opinions

e This is to ensure we maintain key air routes for freight and goods, including essential and
time-sensitive supplies such as pharmaceuticals, and to support our health response and
New Zealanders to return home.

e = Itis difficult to quantify the longer term impact of further significant border measures on
the New Zealand economy. This will depend on market reactions to the restrictions and
the longer term impacts that flow from the deliberate disruption of supply chains vis a vis

RESTRICTED [COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE]
