previous events but we now believe the comparison is no longer useful, and that we will
see much long lasting impacts on the sector and a slower recovery:

a. There is a significant global economic down turn accompanying COVID-19, this
may mean a longer recovery and we are less likely to see the same pent up
demand and quick bounce back as events like SARS (ie people will not have the
funds or optimism that will see them all suddenly take flights to the same extent
as SARS recovery).

b. Airlines have been hit hard financially to an extent much more significant than
SARS and will take time to bounce back. Some will not.

c. In New Zealand as restrictions go on international airlines, airlines have let.s- \ff
go in New Zealand and re-trenched, more worryingly some have not signa ed a
date of return to NZ.

104. Airlines are asking for the following urgent assistance from Government:

a. Maintain exemptions for air crew (that use PPE in affected countries) jrom self-
isolation — or international airlines will not be able to servicesyNZ, These
exceptions are in line with previous Category 1B restriction for Kerea and Italy.
Not doing this will render the services inoperable.

b. Financial support package — airlines are in survivalmode, a number of airlines
are in real danger of becoming insolvent, lay-offssare \real prospect for staff in
the entire aviation system.

c. Help keep people flying — especially domest cally™!t is safe to fly, support that
message. No government department travel bans.

105. As part of a financial support package airlines have asked for Government to: commit
to no further levy or fee increases until the Sector recovers; provide a 6 month holiday
from Government charges, or a 20%\redUetion from charges. A rebate on Government
changes has also been suggested.

106. There are some Government evy and fee reviews underway at the moment that
propose funding increases that willimpact on the aviation sector. Some of these are at
the point of Cabinet considération after industry consultation for example: proposed
increases by Ministry \fPrimary Industries and the Civil Aviation Authority. It is critical
that there is a consistenftapproach across Government to future increases and
adjustments on the aviation, and that Cabinet makes a call on potential deferral of these
reviews to proyide Some short-term relief for the sector.

107. Constitutio}aleopventions

108. We also recommend that further work will be undertaken on a potential aviation relief
package with the intent of encouraging airlines to remain in New Zealand, or quickly
return to once restrictions are lifted given the criticality of aviation to tourism and the NZ

RESTRICTED [COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE]
