93. In the event of reduced travel options for return, an unknown number of foreign nationals
may be stranded in New Zealand and would require support with accommodation, living
costs, and visa extensions, alongside broader welfare support. We have already
established that foreign nationals are entitled to any COVID-19 related health care.
International relations

If further countries are affected by restricted travel, especially
developing countries, there will be an increased burden on New Zealand agencies to
support foreign nationals caught out by the changes.

Package of measures: Go Hard, Go Early, Contain COVID-19

94. If you decide to designate the world as Category 1B, with Australia and the Pacifigjas
Category 2, then this should be announced alongside a package of measures tomitigate
the worst impacts and ensure the time is used to best prepare New Zealand\ ofa
COVID-19 outbreak.

95. A ‘Go hard, Go early, Contain COVID-19’ package would comprisez

a. stronger measures at the border:
i. Category 1A: keep mainland China and Irn in this @ategory
ii. Category 1B: designate the rest of the world, except Australia, Pacific,
and those in Category 1A. This means @ll travellers (New Zealanders and
foreign nationals) will be expected tojself isolate for 14 days on arrival in
New Zealand
iii, Category 2: Australia and Pacific: sThis means that all travellers (New
Zealanders and foreign nationals) will be expected to self-isolate if they
show symptoms within 14 days of arrival.
iv. Self-isolation expectations donot apply to air and marine crew who have
taken appropriate infectiomcontrol and PPE measures as required.
v. The Category 1B and,@ategory 2 designations should take effect from
23:59 Suindaye15 March 2020.
vi. a tempolary ban on the entry of cruise ships to New Zealand’s territorial
waterston public health grounds, coming into effect from 23:59 on 14
March 2020 (separate paper refers)
vii.(/ stronger health screening at the border on arrival, and with airlines
agreement, as departure port overseas
wiii_/ exit screening measures for departures to the Pacific
b. “direct support to incentivise people to self-isolate in practice and slow the spread
of the virus
¢. announcing shortly regulation to limit mass gatherings (advice to come in next 24
hours)
d. actions over a 30 day period to accelerate our preparedness and maximise the
benefits from and justify the economic costs of the border measures
e. arelief package for the aviation sector to encourage airlines to remain in New
Zealand so that we can re-bound from the restrictions quickly and not have
significant impacts on our tourism sector, exporters, and economy
® This means: all Pacific Islands Forum members (except French Polynesia), Associate Member Tokelau, and
Observer Wallis and Futuna
RESTRICTED [COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE]
