Table 1. Risk mitigating isolation measures that are advised in scenarios with differing levels of risk
—- Risk of exposure New Zecland a [= Risk of transmission Guidance/Procedures | 1 ,a1th resources required / provided | Legal framework
Measure Such as where Within the accommodation MoH guidance on how to i *
have been coe Where they will isolate settings in New Zealand isolate in each measure _| SUPP0't provided through Health System | Public Health Act 1956
Self-Isolation Low - People that have Individuals staying in Low - The risk of Guidance for self- Healthline resource for registration and Health sector providing
been in places of concern | private residences or transmission in settings isolation’ phone advice support through
in the past 14 days have similar (such as private where people have access to | Register with Healthline standard models of
a low risk of contracting homes, flats or homestays) | private residences with for follow up care.
the virus established networks of
support is low.
‘Supported Low - People thathave | Individuals are supported | Medium -The risk of ‘Guidance for self- Healthline resource for registration and _| Health sector providing
Self-Isolation been in places of concern | through shared transmission is considered isolation. phone advice. support through
in the past 14 days have accommodation facility medium in accommodation Supplementary In some circumstances may require standard models of
a low risk of contracting settings (such as student settings where people are in guidance for self- assurance from facility management care.
the virus hostels/halls or hotels). close proximity or a shared isolation in shared that the guidance can be met effectively.
accommodation facility. accommodation If the guidance cannot be met,
facilities. additional support through Health
resources may be required.
Where individuals have no
accommodation, additional resources
may be required (including cross-
government).
Monitored Self- | High - Individuals who Can vary from private Low/ medium —As above, | Monitoring and support | This group will be a priority for Health Health sector providing
Isolation are identified as a close residences to shared this will depend on managed as per resourcing and will require individual support through
contact with a confirmed accommodation facilities. accommodation settings standard guidance for follow up and management through the | standard models of
COVID-19 case that have (private or shared close contact Health system. care.
a high risk of developing accommodation facilities). management. Health legislation can
COVID-19 disease be used for this group
and this moves into
enforced isolation
(below)
Enforced High - Individuals at high | Can vary from private Low - Enforced isolation Managed as per Intensive Health resourcing required A Medical Officer of
Isolation tisk of developing COVID- | residences to shared procedures follow very strict operating procedures including accommodation facilities, Health can require
19 disease (e.g. have accommodation facilities. requirements regarding for enforced isolation laundry, cleaning, food, and other isolation or quarantine
been in a place of proximity and shared (e.g. Whangaparaoa) services. for the ‘purpose of
identified outbreak such accommodation facilities. preventing the outbreak
as Wuhan and/or have or spread of any
had close contact with a infectious disease’.
confirmed COVID-19
case).
* https://www.health.govt.nz/our-work/diseases-and-conditions/novel-coronavirus-covid-19/novel-coronavirus-self-isolation
? Health Act 1956 Section 70 ‘Special powers of medical officer of health’
6
6rpvz42cmb 2020-04-20 13:33:35
